HUBBARD COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Saint Hill Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex

HCO BULLETIN OF 8 OCTOBER 1981R
Issue III
REVISED 16 JANUARY 1989

Remimeo
Word Clearers
Supervisors
Cramming Officers
Tech/Qual
Word Clearing Series 6RB
Tape Course Series 9RA


    WORD CLEARING METHOD 2


Method 2 utilizes the E-Meter to locate misunderstood words
that may not be detectable otherwise. It is a very thorough
form of Word Clearing.

Method 2 Word Clearing is only done on an individual who
has received Method 1 Word Clearing to completion.

There are two ways in which Method 2 Word Clearing can be used:

1. As a routine method of Word Clearing in Qual or in the
course room to handle bogs, confusions, misapplications,
misunderstandings, etc., or as part of a cramming order or
checksheet requirement. This does not require any C/S okay.

2. On a large body of data. This is often done after it has
already been studied, to clean up any misunderstoods in
that body of data. It can be done on such things as a staff
member's hat, the materials of an auditor's level of
training, the C/S Series, one's first Scientology
materials, etc. This action is usually part of a program
such as a retread program or part of someone's TIP. It does
require C/S okay before the action can be begun.

The Word Clearer doing the Method 2 must be trained in the
use of the E-Meter and instant reads.

Method 2 is not attempted if the student's TA is either
high or low. The Word Clearer would ensure that there is no
false TA, using the False TA Checklist. If the TA remains
high or low and is not false, the student would be sent to
Review for handling.


METHOD 2 PROCEDURE

a. On Written Materials

The student is put on the meter and the Word Clearer (or
Supervisor) gives him the R-factor, "I am not auditing you."

The student is told that if he comes to a word or phrase he
doesn't understand he should tell the Word Clearer so that
the misunderstood can be cleared.

The student should be encouraged to find and clear misunderstood 
words himself and should not become dependent on the meter.

The Word Clearer has the student read aloud to him starting
at the very top of the first page.

The Word Clearer watches the meter carefully. As soon as
the needle reads (sF, F, LF, LFBD), the Word Clearer stops
the student, asks, "What was the word you just read?" finds
the word that read and gets it looked up in a good
dictionary, whether the student says he knows the meaning
or not. If it is a technical word or term in the subject
being addressed, it is looked up in a glossary or technical
dictionary. (Note: In using various glossaries and
technical dictionaries, care must be taken to find a
dictionary definition that is on the correct gradient for
the student.)

The Word Clearer first clears the word for himself, then
the word is cleared on the student per HCOB 23 Mar. 78RB,
Word Clearing Series 59RB, CLEARING WORDS. The dictionary 
is handled by the Word Clearer; the student does not let 
go of the cans.

Each word cleared is taken to F/N. The Word Clearer then
has the student reread the sentence that contains the word
that was misunderstood. The Word Clearer must ensure that
the student understands the section of the text that
contains the word. If the student does not originate this
fact, the Word Clearer should ask the student what that
part of the text means. He wouldn't let the student
continue reading if the student did not comprehend what he
just read.

If the student doesn't understand something about what he
just read, then there will be another misunderstood word,
probably earlier in the text, in which case the Word
Clearer would have the student go to an earlier point in
the text and start reading.

Only when he fully understands the section of the text that
contains the word that was misunderstood does the student
continue reading.

The student continues reading aloud to the end of the last
page of the materials being covered. Any further reads of
the meter are handled as above.

At the end of the Word Clearing session, send the student
to the Examiner.

b. On Tapes

This is done exactly as in Method 2 on written materials
except that the student listens to the tape with headphones
on while the Word Clearer watches the meter for a read.

The Word Clearer operates the controls of the tape player
while the student listens. The Word Clearer does not listen
to the tape himself.

As soon as the needle reads, the Word Clearer stops the
machine and asks the student, "What was the word you just
heard?" (Note: It is important that the tape player is
stopped at the exact moment that the meter reads, otherwise
the Word Clearer may be asking the student for a word three
or four words later than the reading word. On some machines 
it is fastest to rest the thumb or a finger on the pause 
button while the tape is playing, using the pause button 
to immediately stop the machine when a read occurs.

The most ideal setup for Method 2 on tapes is to have a
foot pedal that the Word Clearer uses to operate the tape
player with. This then frees up the Word Clearer's hands.)

If the student can't spot the word, the Word Clearer helps
him find it by replaying the last short section of tape. If
the student still can't tell him what the word is, the tape
is replayed from an even earlier point.

As soon as the meter reads, the Word Clearer stops the
machine and gets the word from the student. The word is
then cleared as in Method 2 on written materials.


HANDLING THE BOGGED OR NON-F/Ning STUDENT

Method 2 can be done on a student in trouble to get him
F/Ning again, to handle a bog, confusion, etc.

The student is put on the meter and is given the proper
R-factors as covered in Method 2 on written materials, above.

He is asked at what point in his materials he started
having difficulty.

The Word Clearer takes the student back to a point earlier
than where the student started having trouble and has the
student read aloud to him.

The Word Clearer watches the meter and handles all reads as
described in Method 2 on written materials, above.

The materials are so covered up to the point where he was
having trouble.

If the difficulty does not resolve, the Word Clearer has
the student start reading from an even earlier point in the
material. It may go back to an earlier issue, tape, earlier
course or even an earlier subject. (Ref: Tape 6408C06
SHSBC-34, Study Tape 4, STUDY-GRADIENTS AND NOMENCLATURE,
and Tape 6510C14 SHSBC-68, BRIEFING OF REVIEW AUDITORS)

End off when the difficulty has been resolved and the
student is once again bright and F/Ning, and send the
student to the Examiner.


METHOD 2 ON LARGE BODIES OF DATA

This requires C/S okay to ensure that the student is not in
the middle of an auditing action or process or in the need
of a repair, etc. (Note: Method 2 on just an issue or two,
such as for a cramming order, would not need C/S okay, but
any large amount of Method 2 work would.)

The Word Clearer starts the student at the very top of the
first page of the materials and the whole of the materials
are covered by Method 2. All reading words are cleared
including any words originated by the student as misunderstood.

Done on one's first Scientology materials (first materials
read or first tape heard), it uncovers basic misunderstoods
on Scientology. Done on one's hat or other material, it
handles the basic reason behind post failures or difficulty
with any material.

The EP is a continuous F/N on the materials being word cleared.


COMPREHENSION

Ref: HCOB 30 Jan. 73RE Word Clearing Series 46RE Rev. 16.5.84 
METHOD 9 WORD CLEARING THE RIGHT WAY

Glibness is often trained into students by the current
educational methods, as students are taught to read aloud
without understanding what they are reading.

Understanding is actually considered to be something
separate from reading.

Therefore the Word Clearer must see that the student
understands that he should be comprehending the materials
as he reads them.

And if a student starts reading a section without
comprehension (goes blank, robotic) or if any other
manifestations of misunderstoods appear, then the Word
Clearer should have the student go back to the last point
in the materials when he was doing well and reading with
comprehension. The student would then come forward from
there and the misunderstood word or symbol should be found
and cleared.

After all, the reason Method 2 is being done is to bring
about a comprehension of the materials.


CAUTIONS

The most common source of trouble in Method 2 Word Clearing
is in the Word Clearer not knowing his meter reads and
either missing actual reads or incorrectly calling reads,
such as calling the right swing of an F/N a read. The
remedy for this of course is for the Word Clearer to get
his misunderstoods off on the subject of the E-Meter and
its needle manifestations and to redo the drills in The
Book of E-Meter Drills until his metering is flawless.

Method 2 can fail if the Word Clearer does not locate the
earlier material that contains the misunderstood word. This
is remedied by word clearing the Word Clearer on the Study
Tapes, especially Study Tape 4, STUDY- GRADIENTS AND
NOMENCLATURE, and word clearing him on Tape 6510C14 SHSBC-68,
BRIEFING OF REVIEW AUDITORS.

A bog or the lack of a good result on Method 2 is handled
by giving the student a Word Clearing Correction List (HCOB
27 Nov. 78RB, Word Clearing Series 35RI).

(Note: Just because a student has had a Word Clearing
Correction List does not now mean that that's the end of
the Method 2. The purpose of the Word Clearing Correction
List is to pick up the errors made in Word Clearing. It in
no way replaces Method 2 and actually getting the
misunderstoods found and cleared. When the student has been
cleaned up with the WCCL, he is returned to Method 2 Word
Clearing so any remaining misunderstood words can be found
and cleared.) Method 2 is simple to do and will produce
astonishing results, provided the Word Clearer knows his
study tech and his metering well.


L. RON HUBBARD
Founder

Revision assisted by
LRH Technical Research
and Compilations


==================
084. HCOB 12 NOV 81RD r. 20 Apr 90 GRADE CHART STREAMLINED


HUBBARD COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Saint Hill Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex

HCO BULLETIN OF 12 NOVEMBER 1981RD
REVISED 20 APRIL 1990

Remimeo
All C/Ses
All Auditors
Tech/Qual
Registrars
Dissem
Orgs and Missions 
The Auditor
BPI


      URGENT-IMPORTANT

    GRADE CHART STREAMLINED

       FOR LOWER GRADES

Refs:

HCOB 12 Dec. 81 THE THEORY OF THE NEW GRADE CHART
HCOB 14 Dec. 81 THE STATE OF CLEAR
HCOB/PL 25 Sept. 79RB Word Clearing Series 34
   Rev. 1.7.85 METHOD ONE WORD CLEARING
Book: The Way to Happiness
Classification, Gradation and Awareness Chart


I recently reworked the Grade Chart in the interest of
greater gain for the pc. I forwarded the notes for issue
and they were added to by others. Some of the additions
were done because of an unnecessary confusion on the state
of Clear: They have no bearing on this new Grade Chart and
so have been deleted. TWO additional HCOBs have been
written by me, HCOB 12 Dec. 81, THE THEORY OF THE NEW GRADE
CHART, and HCOB 14 Dec. 81, THE STATE OF CLEAR. This new
Grade Chart as follows is for use at once. A full new Grade 
Chart will be issued later.


NEW GRADE CHART

0. Introductory and Assist actions as commonly used in orgs
and by auditors on new pcs.

1. PURIFICATION RD.

2. OBJECTIVES as required.

3. SCIENTOLOGY DRUG RD. (OPTIONAL, only for those who need
it per the sections in this HCOB on DRDs and PROGRAMING; 
HCOB 31 May 77, LSD, YEARS AFTER THEY HAVE "COME OFF OF" LSD; 
HCOB 28 Aug. 68 II, DRUGS; and HCOB 23 Sept. 68, DRUGS AND 
TRIPPERS.)

4. EXPANDED ARC STRAIGHTWIRE GRADE (Quad).

5. EXPANDED GRADE 0 (Quad).

6. EXPANDED GRADE I (Quad).

7. EXPANDED GRADE II (Quad).

8. EXPANDED GRADE III (Quad).

9. EXPANDED GRADE IV (Quad).

10. NED DRUG RD.

11. NED.

12. If goes Clear on NED, CLEAR CERTAINTY RUNDOWN.

13. SUNSHINE RUNDOWN if goes Clear on NED.

13A. If not cleared on NED goes to an AO for Clearing Course.

14. SOLO AUDITOR COURSE whether Clear or not (or Class 0-IV Academy
courses, prior to Solo Auditor Course).


INTRODUCTORY AND ASSIST ACTIONS

It is quite common for auditors and orgs to give
introductory or demonstration sessions. There are several
of these: They have been issued under various names
including "Life Repair." They should not be excluded from
the Chart. Group Processing comes under this category,
despite the real gains it can give.

Division 6s often have counseling services which, although
they can be done at any time, should be mentioned at this
level.

Assists are, quite often, the first auditing a pc gets and
while most assists can be done at any time (excluding R3R
or NED on Clears or above) they should not be omitted.


OPTIONAL OR CONDITIONAL STEPS

  
  Objectives

During the period of coming off drugs, Objectives are
needed. For pcs who cannot follow commands, Objectives are
needed. Purification in many cases has to be accompanied
with auditing on Objectives to permit withdrawal.

Purification, on a heavy druggie, should be followed by Objectives.

This is a matter of C/S programing. The C/S should estimate
the case and use or omit Objectives as indicated on an
individual programing basis.

Registrars are forbidden to C/S and when the Purification
is done (or when they sell it) simply state that it should
be accompanied or followed by personal auditing.

And Reges should sell intensives.

The Reg can show the Grade Chart and say where it goes but
should state- must state-that what is given is up to the C/S.

A low OCA, right or left, indicates a need of Objectives.

This means that C/Ses can either program the case for
Objectives (optional) or straight onto Scn Drug RD
(optional) or Expanded Straightwire (not optional) and
lower grades (not optional) and NED DRD (not optional) and NED.

The TRs and Objectives Co-audit Course serves to give the
preclear a full battery of Objective Processes as well as
case gain from doing TRs 0-9 and the experience and wins of
auditing another.


  Scientology DRD or NED DRD

The programing and delivery of drug rundowns is done per
the section on programing included in this bulletin, and 
with full use of the data contained in the following key 
HCOBs and the issues they reference:

HCOB 15 July 71RDIII C/S Series 48RE Rev. 8.4.88 NED Series 9RC
 DRUG HANDLING
HCOB 21 Dec. 80R THE SCIENTOLOGY DRUG RUNDOWN Rev. 20.4.90
HCOB 31 May 77 LSD, YEARS AFTER THEY HAVE "COME OFF OF" LSD
HCOB 28 Aug. 68 II DRUGS
HCOB 23 Sept. 68 DRUGS AND TRIPPERS


  Green Form 40 Expanded

Programing and use of the Green Form 40 Expanded as an optional 
or conditional step in handling cases is covered in:

HCOB 8 Dec. 78R II GREEN FORM AND EXPANDED GREEN FORM 40RF, 
  USE OF Rev. 27.6.88 


  Happiness RD

The Happiness RD can be fitted-according to the case-before
or after lower grades, before or after NED, or before or
after Clear. BUT to get OPTIMUM results from it, as clearly
proven by pilot, is just before lower grades and after
Objectives. So that is where it really belongs on the Grade
Chart and where it would be done by most of those moving up
the Bridge. And people whohaven't had Purification or any
needed drug handling and Objectives don't do too well on it.

It should not be run, of course, in the Non-Interference
Zone. It even works brilliantly on OTs!

The Happiness RD is the most popular RD. But it won't run,
of course, on a person who needs a Purification. And it
won't run on someone who needs Objectives before he can
follow auditing commands at all. A C/S has to know what any
RD is supposed to do.


  Method One Word Clearing

Method One is strongly recommended for students, auditors
and anyone who wants to recover his past education and
increase his ability to study.

Ideally it would be done after Objectives and before the
NED Drug RD or NED, although it can be done at any point on
the Grade Chart and on all cases, including Clears and OTs.

There is one exception to this: It is NOT delivered to
those in the Non-Interference Zone (THAT ZONE BETWEEN THE
START OF NEW OT I AND THE COMPLETION OF OT III, FOR THOSE 
WHO WENT CLEAR ON NED, OR FROM THE BEGINNING OF R6EW TO THE 
COMPLETION OF OT III, FOR THOSE WHO DID NOT GO CLEAR ON NED).

As an HGC audited action, Method One is delivered in orgs
and missions. The Method One Co-audit may be done at orgs.

Method One is necessary in order to be a fast flow student,
and is required before doing Academy training or OEC, per:

HCOB/PL 25 Sept. 79RB Word Clearing Series 34
  Rev. 1.7.85 METHOD ONE WORD CLEARING


  PTS RDs and PTS Handlings

The data under this section heading which appeared in the
earlier versions of this HCOB was written by another. It
included false, misleading statements which lead to only
"patch-up" (quickie) type PTS handlings or no PTS handling
being done at all in some orgs and areas.

Specifically, the former statement that PTS RDs and
handlings are done only "to a point where the PTS condition
will no longer block case progress or cause roller coaster"
infers that this is the EP of all PTS RDs or handlings,
which is a false datum.

A second statement limited delivery of the PTS RD, which
contains R3RA, to those at the level of NED on the Grade Chart.

The various actions and rundowns for handling PTSness, with
their EPs, are covered in the following key issues:

HCOB 27 July 76 PTS RUNDOWN AND VITAL INFO RD POSITION CORRECTED
HCOB 31 Dec. 78RA II OUTLINE OF PTS HANDLING Rev. 26.7.86
HCOB 31 Dec. 78RAIII EDUCATING THE POTENTIAL TROUBLE SOURCE, THE 
  FIRST STEP TOWARD HANDLING: PTS C/S-1 Rev. 21.3.89 
HCOB 24 Apr. 72 I C/S Series 79 PTS INTERVIEWS
HCO PL 27 Oct. 64R POLICIES ON PHYSICAL HEALING, INSANITY AND 
  SOURCES OF TROUBLE Rev. 15.11.87 
HCO PL 20 Oct. 81R PTS TYPE A HANDLING Rev.10.9.83
HCOB 10 Aug. 73 PTS HANDLING
HCOB 8 Mar. 83 HANDLING PTS SITUATIONS
HCOB 10 Sept. 83 PTSness AND DISCONNECTION
HCOB 24 Nov. 65 SEARCH AND DISCOVERY
HCOB 9 Dec. 71RD PTS RUNDOWN, AUDITED Rev. 28.3.89
HCOB 17 Apr. 72R C/S Series 76R Rev. 20.12.83 C/Sing A PTS RUNDOWN
HCOB 29 Dec. 78R THE SUPPRESSED PERSON RUNDOWN, A MAGICAL NEW RUNDOWN
  Rev. 20.12.83 
HCOB 30 Dec. 78R SUPPRESSED PERSON RUNDOWN PROBLEMS PROCESSES
  Rev. 6.1.79 
HCOB 24 Jan. 77 TECH CORRECTION ROUNDUP
HCOB 6 Aug. 65 QUALIFICATIONS TECHNICAL ACTIONS

These rundowns and handlings are not assigned to a specific
point on the Grade Chart as they are used when a PTS
condition is encountered. C/Ses, auditors, HCOs and Quals
must be fully conversant with these and must ensure their
correct use in handling PTSness terminatedly when it occurs.


  Int Rundowns

The INTERIORIZATION RD or the END OF ENDLESS INT RD are the
remedies used to stabilize a pc after exteriorization and
permit him to be audited further. Programing and handling
is done per the following issues:

HCOB 4 Jan. 71R Int RD Series 2
  Rev. 24.9.78 EXTERIORIZATION AND HIGH TA
HCOB 24 Sept. 78RB I Int RD Series 4RB
  Rev. 4.2.89 THE END OF ENDLESS INT REPAIR RUNDOWN
HCOB 17 Dec. 71RB Int RD Series 15
  Rev. 24.9.78 C/S Series 23RB INTERIORIZATION SUMMARY

which gives a full list of references on the subject.


  STALLED DIANETIC CLEAR: SOLVED

Anyone who is Clear should be actively moving on up to the
next higher levels on the Grade Chart. If this is not
happening, if the Clear is moving very slowly or stopped in
his progress, HCOB 27 Mar. 84, C/S Series 119, STALLED
DIANETIC CLEAR: SOLVED, provides a full array of handlings
that may be done to assist the Clear to get unstuck from
any point of possible hang-up. Not the least of the actions
are Sec Checking and the handling of false purposes. Any of
the services provided would be C/Sed for by a Case
Supervisor qualified to handle Clears, and none of the
actions C/Sed would include NED or any form of Dianetics,
as Dianetics is not to be run on Clears.

An org with stalled Clears in its field should be making
full use of this technology in order to assist the
individual Clear himself and, as well, to unjam the flow in
the area for which the org is responsible.


  PROGRAMING

Cases divide up into four general groups:

Case 1: ON DRUGS, will go through withdrawal-Needs Objectives and
Purification at same time. Then up the Chart.

Case 2: HAS BEEN ON DRUGS. OCA BELOW CENTER LINE ON
RIGHT OR LEFT. Needs Purification, Objectives before can
respond well to think processes or auditing commands. Then up full
Chart. Happiness RD before NED.

Case 3 : NO HEAVY DRUGS. OCA MIDDLE RANGE. Purification,
Objectives, Expanded Straightwire, Lower Grades, Happiness RD,
NED on up.

Case 4: OCA ALL IN THE UPPER HALF OF GRAPH. NO HEAVY
DRUG HISTORY. Purification optional, ARC Straightwire,
Expanded Lower Grades, Happiness RD, NED, etc.

Public in this last case group who have read The Way to
Happiness can come in and go right onto the Happiness
Rundown and on up the Bridge. (This is one of the major
routes for public into the org.)

Reges must not sell the pc a program. A Reg sells auditing.
Person wants a certain rundown-Reg only has to say, "Good,
you'll get it," and the C/S, informed, can put it on the
program in its proper place.

Refunds came from nondelivery or misprograming. As all
cases are not in the same state, one cannot run them all on
the same program. A raw pc can have every RD there is but
not in a sequence that will not match his case.

Pcs will turn up who have had a Happiness RD in a mission who 
need Objectives. Pcs will turn up who have had intro services 
or assists. One simply notes it and doesn't repeat or overrun
those processes. Pcs will turn up who need repair of
earlier auditing. Pcs will appear who have had Book One
auditing. Each needs his own program. That is all the
business of the C/S, not the Reg.

The Reg can tell the pc all about this RD or that but must
always say "I am here to be sure you obtain enough hours so
you can receive what you want. It is up to the Technical
staff to give your case individual programing. We know
where you want to go, the C/S will be told and we are here
to help you get there. Not all cases are the same and the
Tech staff will tailor your program to fit you. The rundown
you have requested will be on that program. We want you to
get the maximum obtainable benefit from it and that is done
by preparation. If you cooperate, we will do the best we can."

__________

If you show them the routes you can stress individual
programing. Every pc likes individual attention. The honest
fact is that a Grade Chart can give only the big pattern
one should travel. How to get the pc up it is between the
C/S and the pc's individual case.

There is no Royal Road that has an exact starting point for
every pc. There is a series of wins that people can attain
and these are in a proper sequence of case levels.

A Grade Chart is the sequence for all cases but cases start
at different points when they begin to ascend it. And so a
C/S has to use it that way.

__________


ALTERNATE CLEAR ROUTE

Please note that at (12) on the above list provision begins
to be made for those who do not go Clear on NED. The Clear
Certainty Rundown is not given to someone who has not gone
Clear on NED. (13) the Sunshine Rundown, is also not given
to those who do not go Clear on NED. Instead of these two
(12 and 13), the person can go on to an Advanced Org for
his Clearing Course.

But, please note, whether a person goes Clear on NED or
not, it is planned that he can begin his Solo Auditor's
Course (necessary for OT steps) in his home org. Part I of
the Solo Auditor's Course can be begun right after the
Sunshine Rundown or not having gone Clear; and Part II,
completing it, can be done in an SH or AO.


L. RON HUBBARD
Founder

Revision assisted by
LRH Technical Research
and Compilations


==================
085. HCOB 13 NOV 81 WHAT TONE 40 IS


HUBBARD COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Saint Hill Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex

HCO BULLETIN OF 13 NOVEMBER 1981

Remimeo
Tech/Qual
Div VI
Missions
Group Auditors
Group Auditor Courses
Assessment Drills Course


  WHAT TONE 40 IS


"Tone 40" refers to the highest tone (40) shown on the
scale of the various tone levels for a thetan. (Ref: HCOB
25 Sept. 71RB Rev. 1.4.78, TONE SCALE IN FULL)

The term "Tone 40" as we use it to describe an action is
most simply defined as: AN EXECUTION OF INTENTION.

(Execution in this context means: to carry out, to
accomplish; to fulfill. Intention = an idea that one is 
going to accomplish-do-something; it is positive direction 
of an idea. An intention is not words, nor is it dependent
upon words.)

To define it more comprehensively:

Tone 40 is a positive postulate with no counter-thought
expected, anticipated or anything else; that is, total control.

It can also be defined as giving a command and just knowing
that it will be executed despite any contrary appearances.
In other words, Tone 40 is positive postulating.

A Tone 40 intention includes nothing else - no counter-intention 
specifically. (Counter-intention is any intention which counters 
an intention.) Any emotion is misemotion at Tone 40.

For one to achieve a Tone 40 intention, he must have a
reality on space; otherwise he has no place in which to
create an intention. Actually at Tone 40 one has unlimited
space at will. That doesn't mean "the greatest space"
(which would happen at about Tone 20 or 22). It means space
at will.

One must have a reality on objects and other beings;
otherwise he has no terminal in which to create an intention.

He must have a reality that he can create an effect in a
given space, and he must be able to create this effect with
no liability.

And, as executing a Tone 40 intention is, in essence, total
control, confront enters into it. The ability to control is
largely dependent upon the ability to confront.


  TONE 40 AUDITING

Tone 40 auditing is defined as: Positive, knowing,
predictable control by a known source of control toward the
pc's willingness to be at cause concerning his body and his
attention.

All Tone 40 auditing is done completely in present time,
without remembering or anticipating. One observes and
handles in present time.

A Tone 40 acknowledgment totally ends the cycle of action
and totally ends the creation of the intention. In other
words, it ends the cycle completely and also acknowledges
everything both auditor and pc have done, whether it was a
Tone 40 action, execution of command or bank reaction. A
true Tone 40 acknowledgment ends all preceding action.

There are three parts of man: thetan, mind, body.

You cannot damage a thetan by exercising Tone 40 control 
over him.

The above is a brief summation of stable data concerning
Tone 40. There is considerably more data on this subject to
be studied and known, including drills on the use of Tone
40 intention, to be found in the full works of Scientology.
The following is a list of some of the main references on
the subject:

Book: Scientology 0-8: The Book of Basics
Book: Science of Survival
Book: Advanced Procedure and Axioms
Technical Volumes, especially Vols I, II and III
HCOB 25 Sept. 71RB, Rev. 1.4.78, THE TONE SCALE IN FULL
PAB (Professional Auditor's Bulletin) Numbers: 133, 134,
  135, 137, 147, 151, 152, 153, 154
Secretarial to the Executive Director, 20 Apr. 59, UPPER 
  INDOC HAT MATERIAL
HCOB 8 Apr. 57, GROUP AUDITING
HCOB 11 June 57, TRAINING AND CCH PROCESSES
HCOB 2 Apr. 58, ARC IN COMM COURSE
HCOB 15 Oct. AD 8, ACC CLEAR PROCEDURE
HCOB 23 Aug. 65, ABBREVIATIONS AND SYMBOLS OF DIANETICS
  AND SCIENTOLOGY
HCOB 1 Dec. 65, CCHs
HCOB 7 May 68, UPPER INDOC TRs
HCOB 22 Apr. 80, ASSESSMENT DRILLS
Tape 5707C25, "Scales" (Effect Scale)

__________


L. RON HUBBARD
Founder


==================
086. HCOB 15 NOV 81R r. 18 DEC 88 THE SUNSHINE RUNDOWN


HUBBARD COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Saint Hill Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex

HCO BULLETIN OF 15 NOVEMBER 1981R
REVISED 18 DECEMBER 1988

BPI


    THE SUNSHINE RUNDOWN


The Sunshine Rundown is a bright new rundown which adds
extra shine to the state of Clear. It is the next step on
the Grade Chart after the Clear Certainty Rundown (or after
the Clearing Course for persons on the Alternate Clear
Route). It is done by all Clears directly after they attest
to having attained the state of Clear.

By doing the Sunshine Rundown the person is becoming
self-determined.

The rundown is done by the Clear himself and is usually
completed in one session. Solo auditor training is not
needed in order to audit the Sunshine Rundown.

The confidential instructions are easily followed, even by
those with no previous tech training.

The Sunshine Rundown is available at Class IV and higher orgs.

New Clears, already shining and bright, will be shinier and
brighter still after the Sunshine Rundown-and ready to
continue on their next step up the Bridge to OT.

The next step for a person completing the Sunshine Rundown
is the Hubbard Solo Auditor Course Part 1 or, for those who
did the Alternate Clear Route and have already completed
their Solo auditor training, New OT I.


L. RON HUBBARD
Founder

Revision assisted by
LRH Technical Research
and Compilations


==================
087. HCOB 29 NOV 81 DN AND SCN COMPARED TO NINETEENTH CENTURY PRACTICES


HUBBARD COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Saint Hill Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex

HCO BULLETIN OF 29 NOVEMBER 1981

Remimeo


          DIANETICS AND SCIENTOLOGY

    COMPARED TO NINETEENTH CENTURY PRACTICES


A comparison between Dianetics and Scientology and psychology and
psychiatry is nonsense.

The two nineteenth century subjects, psychology and
psychiatry, do not achieve ANY good results. On the
contrary, they are destructive beyond belief. They make
crackpots, sexpots and vegetables when they do not outright
kill.

The greatest crime of our times is the use of psychology
and psychiatry to teach little children in schools with
them and manufacture crime and a whole world of immorality
and unhappiness.

The character of the governments themselves is established
by their tolerance and use of psychology and psychiatry. In
no human race of any civilized repute has any law condoned
broad mayhem and murder of their populations. Yet under
modern governments psychology and psychiatry not only have
carte blanche but also get insistence on their use.

Murderers flock to murderers, according to old sages. The
governments only smile at the brand of Cain upon their heads.

Is this a civilized world we're living in?

I'm afraid it only will be when Dianetics and Scientology
can bring wisdom enough to man to blunt his furious efforts
to do himself in.

So laugh in people's faces if they compare Dianetics and
Scientology to the "orthodox mental subjects." They are
insulting you.


L. RON HUBBARD
Founder


==================
088. HCOB  5 DEC 81R r.7 OCT 84 SET UP AND USING A REEL-TO-REEL TAPE


HUBBARD COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Saint Hill Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex

HCO BULLETIN OF 5 DECEMBER 1981R
REVISED 7 OCTOBER 1984

Remimeo
Students
Supervisors
Course Admins


     Tape Course Series 7R

      SETTING UP AND USING

   A REEL-TO-REEL TAPE PLAYER


Ref:
HCO PL 6 May 71 AUDIENCE ALERTNESS AND TAPE PLAYERS

Years ago I found that student comprehension and tape
playing quality went hand in hand. I made some experiments
with this and I found that on bad quality equipment most of
the students went to sleep, but as the quality of the
equipment improved, their comprehension also improved. And
that students got the best grades on high-quality equipment.

The tape player must be of high quality to reproduce the
sound without adding to or distorting what is on the tape.
Poor-quality sound is difficult and annoying to listen to
and causes misunderstoods by preventing the listener from
hearing exactly what is said. The poorer the equipment, the
poorer the comprehension. The better the equipment, the
better the comprehension.

This also applies to the headphones. Course tapes must
always be listened to through high-quality, high-fidelity
headphones. This permits the listener to be undisturbed by
other noises in the area, as well as prevents others from
being disturbed by the tape being played. High-fidelity
headphones permit the listener to have his undivided
attention on the tape and produce a pleasant and
easy-to-listen-to sound which closely duplicates what is
spoken on the tape.

This does not in any way replace misunderstood word tech
nor does it change or add to the three barriers to study
(Ref: HCOB 25 June 71R, Word Clearing Series 3R, BARRIERS
TO STUDY) as the tech for handling student difficulties on
tapes. If a student dopes off on a tape or doesn't
understand, find the misunderstood word and get it cleared.
Don't buy "Well, the equipment is bad so of course he is
doping off." Get the student handled with standard study
tech and then ask, "Why was this student permitted to
listen on poor equipment in the first place?"

THE TAPE PLAYER CONTROLS

In an Academy you may find both tape players and tape
recorders. A tape recorder is a machine that records 
sound onto tape and also can play back the sound.

A tape player is a machine that only plays back the sound
that is already recorded on tape.

Tape recorders should, in effect, be converted to tape
players by having the "record" button removed or sealed up
so that it cannot be used. It will erase the tape and lose
the valuable materials on the tape if pushed accidentally
by the student.

Tape recorders and tape players come in many makes and
models. The controls and switches are arranged in various
places and the machines are of various styles.

Following is a description of the basic controls of a tape
player. The arrangement of these controls will vary from machine 
to machine but their functions will be the same on most machines.

1. On/off switch or power switch.

2. Volume control (often in combination with the on/off switch).

3. Tone control (omitted on some machines).

The tape controls of a tape player are usually in the form
of a switch which is turned to various positions or in the
form of a series of buttons:

SWITCH TYPE CONTROLS:

[Drawing of a rotary switch with postitions marked
Rewind, Stop, Play, Pause, Fast Forward. - Ed.]


BUTTON CONTROLS:

[Drawing of a set of 5 buttons marked Pause, Fast Forward,
Rewind, Stop, Play. - Ed.]


4. PLAY (sometimes called FORWARD): Press this button or
turn the switch to this position to play the tape.

5. FAST FORWARD: Rapidly runs the tape forward without playing 
the tape.

6. REWIND: Rapidly runs the tape back without playing the tape.

7. STOP: Stops the tape. Always stop the tape before fast
forwarding or rewinding the tape. Also bring the tape to a 
complete stop after fast forwarding or rewinding the tape 
before playing the tape.

8 . PAUSE: Use to temporarily pause a tape that is being
played. On a machine with a pause button, press the pause 
button to hold the tape; press the button again to release 
it. On a machine that has a switch with a pause position, 
turn the switch to the pause position to pause the tape then 
back to "play" to play the tape.

9. FOOT PEDAL: This is exactly the same as the pause button
in function except that it is operated by the foot. Academy tape
players must have a foot pedal so the student can have his
hands free to look up words, take notes, demonstrate
something with his demo kit, etc. (Most tape players do not
have foot pedals, but they can and should be installed on
tape machines that don't already have them.)

CAUTION: If you are using a tape recorder that has a RECORD
BUTTON, never press this button, as it will erase the
section of tape being played while the record button is
pressed. (The record button is used when recording
something onto a tape. But when it is used with a prerecorded 
tape, it will also erase any section of that tape that is 
played.) The record button is usually red.


SETTING UP THE TAPE PLAYER

1. The tape player is set on a steady bench, table or
platform at a comfortable height so the student can easily
operate the controls, take notes, etc.

2. The tape player should be set up so that the student is
facing the Course Supervisor, rather than having his back
to the Supervisor. This enables the Supervisor to see how
the student is doing and he can easily spot if the student
has gone dull or sleepy from a misunderstood word.

3. The tape machine is plugged in and switched on to check
if the power is on and that the machine is operating.

4. Plug in the headphones.

5. Plug in the foot pedal and position it on the floor so
that it can comfortably be reached by the foot.

6. The tape is put on the tape player and the colored
leader is threaded around the tape guides and playing head
and in between the capstan and rubber pinch roller as shown 
in the following diagram.

[Diagram showing two large reels, the left one full and
the right one empty with the tape running down through
the mechanism and back up to the empty reel.  The mechanism
consists of a tape guide, a playing head (picks up the
sound recorded on the tape), a rubber pinch roller below
the tape and a capstan roller above it (the tape goes
between them) which pulls the tape forward and regulates
the speed of the tape when being played, and a second
tape guide.]


Be sure not to twist the tape as it is threaded past the
head and guides. The tape should come off the reel flat and
lie flat against the guides and should go onto the empty
reel without a single twist.

7. Set the speed at which the tape will be played at the
correct speed for the tape. (The usual speeds for a tape
player are 7 1/2, 3 3/4, or 1 7/8 inches per second or
their equivalent, 19, 9.5, or 4.8 cm per second.) Most of
the tapes you will play are played at 3 3/4 inches per
second (9.5 cm per second).

8. Run the tape to the beginning of the lecture and set the
tape counter at zero (unless your machine is not equipped
with a tape counter).

9 . Play the tape. Adjust the volume and tone controls as
needed, while playing the tape. Bad tone settings can cause 
students to go by words they don't understand and so dope 
off while listening to a tape.


POINTS ON THE USE OF THE TAPE PLAYER

a. To rewind a tape or to fast forward it, always press the
stop button first.

And after rewinding the tape or fast forwarding it, press
the stop button and wait for the tape to stop before
pressing the play button. Suddenly

jerking the tape forward or back can cause it to break or
stretch or the tape can even come off the reel and get
caught in between the side of the reel and the wound tape.

b. The magnets inside headphones can erase part or all of a
tape so never leave headphones lying near a tape.

c. Keep dirt and dust away from the tape machine and when
not in use replace the cover on the tape machine.

d. Handle a tape gently. Don't do anything that would cause
it to become stretched, tangled or broken. Be sure to place
the tape in its correct box when done and don't permit
loose ends to protrude from the tape box.

e. Don't leave long loose ends sticking out from a reel
when playing a tape. These could get caught in the machine.

f. After the tape has been played, store it in its box
without rewinding it.

Rewinding the tape serves no purpose and fast winding
causes the tape to be wound rather sloppily. This can cause
the tape to distort. Tapes store better and last longer
when wound at playing speed.

g. Never put a piece of paper or anything else into the
tape to register your place. Use the tape counter to find
your place.

h. Always switch the tape player off when not in use, even
on short breaks. This lets the machine cool off and helps 
to prevent it from overheating.

i. At the first sign of any fault with the tape player or a
tape, report it to the Course Admin or your Supervisor.

j. Never twist or knot the headphone cord, as this may lead
to inner wire breakage.

k. If a word or phrase cannot be discerned, call the
Supervisor or check a good transcript, if one is available.
You must look up any misunderstood word in a dictionary.

l. If the sound becomes blurred or of poor quality, ask the
Course Admin to clean the playing head across which the
tape moves. The playing head must be cleaned regularly as 
it picks up some of the coating from the tape, which results 
in a blurred, poor quality sound.

m. If you cannot clearly hear the tape or the quality of
the recording is poor, tell the Course Admin or your
Supervisor. The playing head may need to be cleaned or 
the tape player may need to be demagnetized. You may also
have a bad tape. Don't jeopardize your comprehension of the
materials by listening to a lecture through poor equipment.
Get it handled or switch to a better machine.

n. Consult the instruction book or manual if you need
additional information on the particular tape player or
tape recorder that you are using.

o. If a student has trouble running the tape player or has
difficulty with it, he should be run on Reach and Withdraw
on the tape player by another student as a drill per HCOB 
10 Apr. 81R, REACH AND WITHDRAW.

He should also be word cleared on this HCOB, and also the
tape player manual if needed.


TAPE COURSES

(Tape courses are courses that are taught in languages
other than English where the materials have been translated
and recorded on tape.)

1. Mark the tape-counter reading of each item on the
checksheet as you come to that item on the tape. This gives
you a reference by which you can find any item later on.

2. If a word or phrase cannot be discerned the student
should call the

Supervisor. The Supervisor listens to the tape, and if he
can't distinguish what is being said, he gets hold of the
English text and locates the word or phrase and using a
good foreign language dictionary translates the word or
phrase for the student. It is the responsibility of the
Supervisor to see that any misunderstood word is cleared up.

3. If a student bogs or can't understand something on a
translated tape, he is first word cleared. If the confusion
does not resolve, the translated tape is compared to the
English material and if found to be a translation error the
Supervisor or Word Clearer makes a note of the translation
error by entering it on a card which is then kept in the tape 
box for that tape. He also sends a report to the nearest
Continental Translations Unit.

The vast majority of the technology of Dianetics and
Scientology is recorded on tape. Use good equipment and use
it properly so that you can hear these materials in their
utmost clarity.


L. RON HUBBARD
Founder

Compilation assisted by
LRH Technical Research
and Compilations


==================
089. HCOB 12 DEC 81 THE THEORY OF THE NEW GRADE CHART


HUBBARD COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Saint Hill Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex

HCO BULLETIN OF 12 DECEMBER 1981

All C/Ses
All Auditors
Tech/Qual
Registrars
Dissem
Execs
Orgs and Missions
The Auditor
BPI


THE THEORY OF THE NEW GRADE CHART

The effectiveness of auditing, according to records and
results, tests and hours in session, has increased
enormously in the past thirty-four years (1947-81). This is
due to research - a casual estimate of the time I have put in
on this approaches now a hundred-thousand hours and half a
century. In that time, as could be expected, there have
been breakthroughs and breakthroughs, and it can be
expected that, because of these, the lineup from time to
time would change. It is probably remarkable that the Grade
Chart has not changed more than it has.

Improvements in auditor training as well as technical
revelations have contributed to these refinements.

In the final analysis, it is the individual who receives
the benefits from this.

Increased percentage of results, shortened time to obtain
them, more stable gains, broader application.

But it probably has not occurred to anyone that for the
past thirty-two years, I have been researching DOWNWARDS.
That's right. Remember that I myself was producing results
thirty-two years ago. So what has been happening?

As broader and broader numbers of people were being
addressed, more and more types of cases had to be handled.

Meanwhile, the society itself was going downhill. Outside
the perimeter of Dianetics and Scientology, the level of
cases was DECLINING. More and more problems were being
generated by the Establishment for its population: The
psychologists were let loose on the schools and educational
levels began to collapse; the doctors and psychologists and
psychiatrists began to flood drugs into the culture;
assisted by the FBI, crime statistics began to go out the
roof; crushed by tax people, the economy began to generate
more and more problems for the individual; the psychiatrist
stepped up his program of injuring people and then
compounded the Establishment-tolerated felony of covering
up his crimes by drugging his patient and keeping it a
secret from him that he had been electricshocked; soldiers
began to be brainwashed, not just by the enemy but by their
own governments. No need to go on, even if there are
hundreds more, for this is not a rabble-rouse; it is just a
brief comment on the society's decline, and because members
of that society were being audited as they came in and
because each year the average case found was rougher than
last year's cases, it affected the line-up of the Grade
Chart. 1949 is not 1981.

The key word of all this is UNDERCUT. In research, whatever 
other considerations existed, there was always the necessity 
to go into a lower UNDERCUT of the cases.

Book One, Dianetics: The Modern Science of Mental Health,
contains the bulk of the elements and philosophy that we
use today.

Of course, there have been MANY breakthroughs that were not
downwards, but upwards. However, the bulk of work has been
devoted to finding where current cases were at and
undercutting them to get positive results.

Don't be unduly alarmed by what I am saying about the
social decline as it may influence Dianetics and
Scientology: We are WAY out ahead of it. As the society
went down, our percentages of successful handlings were
going up and up. And this shift in the Grade Chart is part
of a program to keep it so.

The main change in the new Grade Chart is that Dianetics
and Scientology have been switched around. One gets his
Scientology, per this chart, before he gets his Dianetics.

Chronologically, then, Dianetics came before Scientology;
and it would seem natural that one would give Dianetics to
a pc before he gave him Scientology auditing. But wait,
Scientology ARC Straightwire and grades were developed as
an undercut to Dianetics.

It was Dianetics that made the first Clears. Scientology
grades do not make Clears, even though they sometimes
exteriorize a person.

So this has now been made real on the new Grade Chart.
Lower Scientology grades have been placed below NED.

There are other technical reasons for this change: The pc
usually needs a lot of work on his life, his relationships
to his environment today before he has an easy time
confronting his bank as in NED. By giving him Scientology
first, things are made much easier for him when he sails
into NED and when he goes Clear.

The Scientology lower grades unburden an awful lot of bank
and environment when properly applied to a cooperative pc
and can give him wins, wins, wins in his normal life.

This makes, too, for a happier end result.

In most cases, it shouldn't add to time in session, but on
the contrary, can shorten it up.

Also, there should be no particular reason to give lower
grades after a person has gone Clear if his life problems
have already been unburdened.

What is happening, with this new Grade Chart, is that one
is correcting the relative positions of NED and Scientology
lower grades.

I trust we can look forward now to even more Clears coming
off the line.


L. RON HUBBARD
Founder


==================
090. HCOB 14 DEC 81 THE STATE OF CLEAR


HUBBARD COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Saint Hill Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex

HCO BULLETIN OF 14 DECEMBER 1981

All C/Ses
All Auditors
Tech/Qual
Registrars
Dissem
Orgs and Missions
The Auditor
BPI


   THE STATE OF CLEAR


There has been some confusion lately on exactly what is the
state of Clear.

The confusion was introduced by a statement, not mine, that
the state of Clear had harmonics, which is to say there
were different states of Clear.

This is not true. Although it is quite impossible to obtain
an absolute in this universe, the state of Clear is,
actually, about as close as one can come to it.

I have given some time to it, lately, and have come up with
a definition which fits all cases. It is as follows:

A CLEAR IS A BEING WHO NO LONGER HAS HIS OWN REACTIVE
MIND.

The only exception, very, very, very rare, is one who
didn't have a reactive mind in the first place.

The Book One definition of Clear is valid.

I believe I know what has been happening that caused the 
confusion.

Without invalidating the case gain of anyone (and NED for
quite some time now has been making true and valid Clears)
- a few pcs and technical personnel have been mistaking the
state of RELEASE for that of CLEAR.

You see, there are an awful lot of gains that can be made
with auditing. Few people, walking on the street, have any
idea whatever of how much better they can get. It is really
a question of how much better is better.

A person hits a floating TA that simply won't turn off, his
wife and girl friend ooh and aah on how much better he
looks, he hasn't kicked the cat for days and is no longer
coughing. He says, "By golly, I must be Clear!" even though
he really can't pass the test. So the technical people,
seeing him glow, say, "I don't want to invalidate this
guy," and they let him declare and he goes to an SH or AO
and falls on his head when he starts to climb the next ten
light-years to OT. He was just a RELEASE.

There are MANY levels of release. It means simply that one
has lost a fixation or an aberration of one kind or
another. One should get a reality on the light-years of
gain obtainable between the guy on the street and the state
of Clear.

It's simply that we are too good at making Releases today.

So I looked over this problem and found an outness in the
lineup which I have described more fully in HCOB 12 Dec.
81, THE THEORY OF THE NEW GRADE CHART.

There has just been a change in the Grade Chart (HCOB 12
Nov. 81 which has been reissued as HCOB 12 Nov. 81R, Rev.
14.12.81, to correct an error in it where someone else
redefined Clear).

This change in the Grade Chart will go far to handling
personal misconceptions.

Scientology lower grades can produce an abundance of wins.
These releases go far to straightening out one's
environment and life and set one up to have, most usually,
a far easier run of it in New Era Dianetics.

Scientology lower grades sometimes exteriorize a person but
to date, to my knowledge, have never produced a Clear: That
was not their purpose.

Remember that with Dianetics Book One techniques I could
produce Clears. But it took decades of development of
auditor training skills and precise statements of processes
to bring it up to where others could. That point has now
been with us for some time in developed training technology
and New Era Dianetics.

We are making Clears today with NED, make no mistake about
it. But it should prove even easier to do so once the pc's
own life and environment have been straightened out with
all those releases available lower on the new chart.

There is even another chance at Clear if the person misses
it in NED. He still can go on to an SH for his Solo
Auditor's Course and an AO for the old Clearing Course. It
is even being worked out now so that he can begin his Solo
Auditor's Course right in his local org-he'll need it to go
on to OT.

A tiny percentage of people, who haven't made it, want to
declare themselves Clear as a status symbol, but when they
try to go on to OT, it catches up with them, and in any
event can be handled. The releases, given good auditing and
a cooperative pc, are there to be had, and in cases that
have not been wiped out by the psychs or who can be gotten
into communication by an auditor and cooperate, the state
of Clear is there to be had.

And it is just as worthwhile as it ever was.


L. RON HUBBARD
Founder


==================
091. HCOB 15 DEC 81 NEW GRADE CHART PC/PRE-OT PROGRAMING


HUBBARD COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Saint Hill Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex

HCO BULLETIN OF 15 DECEMBER 1981

Remimeo


   NEW GRADE CHART PC/PRE-OT PROGRAMING


Do NOT take people in progress of following the old Grade
Chart off in the middle of an action and put them on the
new chart. Example: Someone half through NED taken off and
put on Scientology Grades. Complete the major action of the
program before any change of the action on the pc or pre-OT.


L. RON HUBBARD
Founder


==================
092. HCOB 17 DEC 81 POST PURPOSE CLEARING REVIVED


HUBBARD COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Saint Hill Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex

HCO BULLETIN OF 17 DECEMBER 1981

Remimeo


   POST PURPOSE CLEARING REVIVED


Ref:
HCOB 4 Aug. 71R POST PURPOSE CLEARING Rev. 26.11.74


Recently some new technology, known as Deoppression, was
developed for and is being used on orgs. (Deop is part of
mission tech and is the subject of Flag Orders.) There is a
piece of good technology that has fallen out of use: It is
Post Purpose Clearing. It is quite successful in raising
the general tone level and production of orgs.

All by itself it produces an increase in production.

It should be undertaken, for sure, after a Deoppression of
an org is done. And, factually, it should be done in any case.

The tech of it is contained in the reference HCOB. But to
that HCOB could be added additional steps.

PPC 12A. One asks, "What is your intention toward your
post?" One takes this to F/N.

PPC 12B. One asks, "What is your post product?" One takes
this to F/N.

PPC 12C. is done, "What is your intention in getting out
that product?" To F/N.

PPC 12D. "What volume of product do you intend to get out?" 
To F/N.

PPC 12E. "What degree of quality do you intend your
products to have?" To F/N.

PPC 13 and PPC 14 are as given in the reference HCOB.

There is an added note to Post Purpose Clearing. It
probably accidentally got swept aside when some Quals
abused What, How and Why in questions and got org staff
snarled up because these were listing questions. Qual was
arbitrarily forbidden to use such listing questions and
this may have influenced this action of Post Purpose
Clearing, so necessary to orgs, and the tech got lost. The
result has been, in some cases, confused and unproductive
staffs.

Also, some seniors, not knowing how their own departments
or divisions were supposed to run, tended to knock off hats
and put people on posts doing the wrong things, resulting
in a "Hey, you" org board.

The remedies for these two errors are quite plain.

1. When any step results in a BD F/N result, indicate it to
the pc. In case of any bog, treat the two-way comm pc
statements as though they were L&N items. Any bog can be 
repaired with an L4B.

2. In the case of executives and seniors, clear them on the
various posts over which they have command, using the OEC
volumes for reference. This will tend to make them hold 
the form of the org.

Various outnesses will be found by any Qual attempting to
do this on an org.

They may discover, for instance, that the org has no hats:
But this should not stop them, although it should be
remedied fast as well.

By adding the intention step, Qual is certainly going to
collide with a few rock slams regarding products or the
org. But this is all to the good: we don't want rock
slammers messing up products or the org. Any plants or
people of evil intentions will show up, though PPC is not
intended as an ethics cycle.

PPC is an organizing step and should not be used to stop
production. But, at the same time, it should not be
forbidden because it is an organizing step.

The speed with which a PPC can be done is not forever. At
PPC 2, if the person is set up to have one as in this step,
the PPC should, for most posts, simply sail along like a
June breeze. With a VGIs at the end.

QUAL'S OBJECT IN GETTING THIS DONE ON A STAFF AND NEW
STAFF MEMBERS IS TO IMPROVE THE QUALITY OF PRODUCTION OF THE
ORG AND TO INCREASE THE PRODUCTION OF THE ORG.

It is quite true that the pay of the org depends upon the
individual quality and volume productivity of each
individual org member. A PPC well done throughout an org
inevitably should raise, by making a better org, org income
and pay.

Remember that orgs which have had the highest stats were
those orgs which ran closest to OEC policy. This is an
historical fact, borne out time after time. So in all Post
Purpose Clearing, your main reference is green-on-white,
the policy letters, and these should be handy and referred
to in any case where the duties of the staff member are
unclear.

It will also come about that you are handling someone who
holds two or three posts. In that case, clear all of them
but add a step PPC 12F, "Is there any conflict with your
other hats and posts?" If it reads, "What are the
conflicts?" and "How are you going to resolve that?"

All cautions and directions in the reference HCOB apply in
doing any Post Purpose Clearing.


L. RON HUBBARD
Founder


==================
093. HCOB 26 DEC 81 POST PURPOSE CLEARING FOR MGMT TEAMS AND EXECS


HUBBARD COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Saint Hill Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex

HCO BULLETIN OF 26 DECEMBER 1981

Remimeo


         POST PURPOSE CLEARING

    FOR MANAGEMENT TEAMS AND EXECUTIVES


Refs:
HCOB 17 Dec. 81 POST PURPOSE CLEARING REVIVED
HCOB 4 Aug. 71R POST PURPOSE CLEARING Rev. 26.11.74


The two necessary ideas a management team or executive must have:

1. That a long-term view, as well as immediate remedies, is vital.

2. That an increase in stats and betterment of organization
health is desirable.

Management staff members or executives who do not have
these concepts or intentions have no business on a
management team or on post as these two basics are why they
are there.

A member of management or an exec can always
short-sightedly operate for a quick profit (i.e., get lots
of service sold but none delivered; buy a cheap machine
that will look good on an FP but will break down in a
month; do a fast, bad job to get up stats and then involve
others for months trying to handle the botch; falsely
reassure seniors that all is well when, in a short time, a
crash will expose them; operate on short-term stats and
ignore the gradual drift down over the months).

When only short-term views are taken, disaster is being courted.

A betterment of the organization and its prosperity has to
be intended by management or an executive in order to bring
it about. When a management team or an executive has
other-intentioned items at work, they harm or destroy not
only the organization but also themselves (i.e., not have
to work so hard; be powerful personally; get even with
others; have more time for the family; keep up with my
golf; live better; wear better clothes; escape the Ethics
Officer; and, of course, simply intending to do the place
and staff in).

Upper-echelon intentions bring about the state of the
division, org or network not only in the present but in the
future. If they intend to make things go right, they will,
of course, observe their area and study successful policies
and actions of proven worth and apply them.

The state of stats, long term, of an executive or
management team gives a definite revelation of their real
intentions.


SUMMARY

Where any management team or executive is failing, it will
be found that their view is very short term and they are
other-intentioned on post.

In management and executive Post Purpose Clearing, one has
to keep these two things in view.

A good manager or executive works hard hour by hour to keep
the show on the road but always with a long-term view as
well. And he intends that org and staff will prosper.

The auditor in Post Purpose Clearing will get a lot of glib
answers. The stats, the honest ones, and the true long-term
performance of the executive, measured by the health of his
zone of responsibility, tell the tale and should be
consulted when in doubt.

The Post Purpose Clearing auditor must be sure these two
principles above are really the case and, if not, handle
the executive so that they are.


L. RON HUBBARD
Founder


==================

1982

==================
094. HCOB 19 JAN 82 HIGH SCHOOL INDOCTRINATION


HUBBARD COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Saint Hill Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex

HCO BULLETIN OF 19 JANUARY 1982

Remimeo
Tech/Qual
Level 1,
NED, SHSBC
Checksheets
Upper Indoc TRs
Checksheets


      HIGH SCHOOL INDOCTRINATION

(Excerpted from the ACC Preparatory Manual
for Advanced Students in Scientology.)


Refs:
HCOB 4 Oct. 56 HIGH SCHOOL INDOCTRINATION
PAB 152, 15 Jan. 59 THE FIVE LEVELS OF INDOCTRINATION
HCOB 7 May 68 UPPER INDOC TRs


The following chapter on High School Indoctrination has
been excerpted from the ACC Manual and published in HCOB
form to ensure its data is easily available to students on
Upper Indoc TRs.

There are five levels of auditor indoctrination, five
levels of skill in which he must be versed. One of these is
High School Indoctrination.

Every auditor has, from time to time, found himself in
difficult and peculiar circumstances while auditing a
preclear. How about the pc who makes a perfectly frank
sexual pass at you? What about the time you said, "Walk
over to the wall?" and the preclear looked at you intently
and asked, "Are you a Theta Clear?" Then there's the pc who
sits down, presumably to be audited, and launches forth:
"Oh, what a pretty tie you're wearing today. I got one just
like it for my husband-except it's green instead of blue,
the one I got for him, I mean. And it was supposed to be
three-fifty, but I got it at wholesale for two-ninety-five
because I know the owner of the store. I went to his
daughter's wedding last week. My niece was supposed to be a
bridesmaid, but right at the last minute . . ." Nonstop. Or
perhaps you've run into a "Tone Twenty": "Do I see that
wall? Why, I can see right through the wall! I can see the
entire MEST universe, any time at all. Right now the solar
system looks about the size of a printed period to me."
Unreality, unreality, unreality.

So what did you do? Did you get a trifle tensed up when the
pc started to paw you affectionately? Did you get a little
brusque, as you scraped him or her off with a putty knife?
Did you get decoyed into a discussion of the history of
your case and current state of exteriorization by the chap
who wanted to know if you were Clear? A little huffy,
maybe? And what about the preclear who talks, and talks,
and talks, and talks? Ever sat there wondering, "Is this a
'preclear origination'? Should I acknowledge? Should I
ignore it? Is there any way of gagging her till I can get
'Locate the ceiling' out? Maybe she's blowing locks. Or is
this her present time problem? And if so, which of the 
sixteen items she's covered in the last three minutes is it?"

Perhaps you've got the obsessive talker taped but how do
you make out with the fake Tone Twenty? A little baffled
about how to have him find a wall without bringing forth
torrents of anguished protest? "You're invalidating me! You
ought to be running me on 8-0. You're just trying to stick
me in my head because you're a Black Five yourself. All my
theta perceptics just turned off ! " What do you do then?
Well, here comes the United States Cavalry to the aid of
the stopped, badgered and harassed auditor. It's called
High School Indoctrination. And it should never happen to
Homo sapiens; he'd never survive it. Auditors, fortunately,
are sterner stuff than Homo sap. They come out of it,
bright as a dollar, crying "Bring on the lions!" Here's how
it goes. An instructor, who will act as preclear, leads a

studentauditor to a large, secluded room. As soon as the
words "Start of session" are out of his mouth, the
instructor-preclear may drop to the floor in a dead faint,
burst into a wild grief charge, bolt for the door or balk
like a donkey with a glazed, blank stare. Or perhaps he may
just stroke the student-auditor's hair, murmuring, "You're
awfully cute, really. Why don't we drop this pretense . .
." Whatever the instructor-preclear elects to do by way of
randomity. If the studentauditor bogs utterly, a
soft-hearted instructor-preclear might say "End of session"
and give him a couple of tips.

Tougher instructor-preclears frown on this and believe in
letting the student-auditor work his own way out of the
situation, though he plow through 76,000,000,000,000 years
of track, year by year, to accomplish it.

The instructor-preclear may run from manic enthusiasm to
deepest apathy in a fraction of a second, and if the
student-auditor doesn't instantly detect the change in
"case level" and handle it properly, he will be hearing
from the instructor-preclear.

One of the more lmsettling things the instructor-preclear
does is to behave like a nice, sane, high-toned preclear
for minutes at a stretch. The student-auditor knows this
state of affairs can't last for long. He will get
thoroughly tensed up, expecting from instant to instant the
next horrid outburst. It's like marching a lighted
firecracker around the room. When the strain becomes
obvious, the instructor-preclear will say "End of session."
And he may say "What are you all tensed up for? Relax.
Start of session." Three seconds later, he's throwing an
epileptic fit on the floor, complete with froth.

There is a second step of High School Indoc which is run
seated. By this time the student-auditor has a fair
certainty that he can cope with a preclear's going out of
control on a general physical level. The seated form takes
a more insidious turn. Some very simple process,
Locational, or "Look at me. Who am I?" is used. The
instructor-preclear will go out of control much more
subtly. He will try to get the student-auditor to change
the process, on one pretext or another. The nastiest thing
to most student-auditors on seated Indoc is an avalanche of
highly personal criticism and button pushing aimed directly 
at the student-auditor. When he winces noticeably, the 
instructor-preclear pursues the same topic to the bitter end. 
"Your hands smell funny.

Don't you ever wash them? There's a lot of dirt under the
nails, too. Careful you don't scratch me and start an
infection." Or, perhaps, "If Scientology's so good, what
are you still wearing glasses for?" In other words, the
instructor-preclear opens up with both barrels on anything
he suspects the student-auditor might actually be a little
sensitive about. When a student-auditor has survived this
phase of High School Indoc and discovers that he can still
give an auditing command and see that it is executed, he
has achieved a nearly unshakable poise and composure!

It may sound inhuman, but it's not out of reach. Students
are arriving at this goal every day-students who mumbled
and students who fidgeted. Students who couldn't confront
or control a pc and ran a process on the nth level of
abstraction. (You know, they were "running 8-C on a
preclear for an hour," not having this preclear walk over
to that wall, right now.) They can make every minute of a
session count now, because everything they do in session is
AUDITING. This is the routine expectancy for a present day
ACC graduate. It can be taught to anyone who is willing to
learn it.


L. RON HUBBARD
Founder

Assisted by
LRH Technical Research
and Compilations


==================
095. HCOB 15 FEB 82 rel 20 Oct 86 FREEDOM OF SPEECH


HUBBARD COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Saint Hill Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex

HCO BULLETIN OF 15 FEBRUARY 1982
(Released on 20 October 1986)

Remimeo


     FREEDOM OF SPEECH


You can say what you please but what you say does not have
to please.

Just be careful not too many people get unpleased.


L. RON HUBBARD
Founder


==================
096. HCOB 17 FEB 82 rel 20 Oct 86 PREJUDICE


HUBBARD COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Saint Hill Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex

HCO BULLETIN OF 17 FEBRUARY 1982
(Released on 20 October 1986)

Remimeo


     PREJUDICE


A fixed, unqualified opinion, usually based on unhappy
experience, substituting itself for reason.


L. RON HUBBARD
Founder


==================
097. HCOB 20 FEB 82 rel 20 Oct 86 OVERTS


HUBBARD COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Saint Hill Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex

HCO BULLETIN OF 20 FEBRUARY 1982
(Released on 20 October 1986)

Remimeo


      OVERTS


Perhaps people commit overts because it is the only thing
they can consider they have themselves done.


L. RON HUBBARD
Founder


==================
098. HCOB  6 MAR 82R r. 10 Dec 88 CONFESSIONAL TECH POLICIES

HUBBARD COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Saint Hill Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex

HCO BULLETIN OF 6 MARCH 1982R
REVISED 10 DECEMBER 1988
(Also issued as an HCO PL, same date and title)

Remimeo
All Orgs
All Staff 
Executives 
Ethics Officers
Auditors
C/Ses
Supervisors 
D of T
HCO
Tech/Qual


             URGENT

    CONFESSIONAL TECH POLICIES

(Adds to and amends HCOB/PL 28 Nov. 78,
AUDITORS WHO MISS WITHHOLDS, PENALTY)


Recent investigations into failures of executives and staff
to produce constructive products (and who produced no products 
and overt products), into case failures and into training
failures, all revealed the following common denominator:
missed withholds (including offenses of a criminal nature
and high crimes against Scientology, its churches and
members and against standard tech and policy) and the
omission of Confessional technology.


  EXECUTIVES AND CONFESSIONAL TECH

Any executive found to be discouraging or forbidding
Confessionals or refusing to permit the tech to be applied
or omitting the application of it or dismissing persons who
seek to get tech or policy in is subject to immediate
suspension from post, is to receive a Confessional and a
Comm Ev on a charge of: NONCOOPERATION WITH ENFORCING
CONFESSIONAL TECHNOLOGY.

By issuing an order to omit Confessionals or that could be
applied as such or failing to keep the tech in or refusing
to have a Confessional, the person has at that moment just
by that act, automatically suspended himself from post and
his orders would not apply. It is thereafter only subject
to HCO Board of Review.

It is a high crime for an executive to penalize auditors,
C/Ses, Tech/Qual or Ethics Officers for following HCOBs or
HCO PLs, especially when it is due to the executive's
withholds. (It is also a high crime to falsely charge an
executive with the above.)


  MINISTERS AND CONFESSIONAL TECH

A pastor or minister who refuses to hear the Confessionals
of persons or who recommends or urges persons not to hear
Confessionals or who omits to hear Confessionals can be
suspended at once as a minister until he himself has
received a Confessional and refusing, remains suspended
until reinstated by an HCO Board of Review.

Such a person is subject to being declared and expulsion
from the Church.


  ETHICS OFFICERS AND CONFESSIONAL TECH

Ethics Officers must be ministers and the failure of an
Ethics Officer to train himself to hear Confessionals
subjects him to post removal and Comm Ev.


  CASE SUPERVISION AND TRAINING
  AND CONFESSIONAL TECH

On any failed case or training failure (tech or admin
training) a Confessional is required on those responsible
(i.e., auditor, C/S, Supers, Word Clearers, D of T or other
Tech/Qual personnel involved).

A failed-case pc or failed student is also required to
receive a Confessional as it has long been known that no
case gain in auditing or in training is due to continuous
overts and withholds.

Any Solo auditor who red-tags is sent to Review and
Cramming and any Solo C/S and Solo Course Super whose pcs
or students are red-tagging must be given a Confessional.

Any minister whose pcs are red-tagging, get sick after
auditing, blow or are dissatisfied with their results or
lack gains, must be given a Confessional.


  REPORTS

Anyone who refuses a Confessional or who refuses to answer
a reading question should be turned over to the Ethics
Officer, and the Inspector General Network notified then
and there. Such a refusal also subjects the person to being
brought before a Court of Ethics on a charge of NO REPORT.
(Refs: HCO PL 19 Apr. 65, ETHICS: TRAINING AND PROCESSING
REGULATIONS; HCOB 4 Apr. 65, ARC BREAKS AND MISSED WITHHOLDS; 
and HCOB 7 Jan. 85, HCO CONFESSIONALS)

Any anti-Scientology overts or intentions disclosed are to
be reported to the Ethics Officer and the Inspector General
Network. (Refs: HCO PL 10 Mar. 82, CONFESSIONALS-ETHICS
REPORTS REQUIRED, and HCO PL 22 July 82, KNOWLEDGE REPORTS)


  PENANCES

A minister who misses withholds on a parishioner is
required to receive Confessionals himself (including a 
"Joburg" Confessional and an Auditor Confessional) and 
if repeated is subject to Comm Ev.

A parishioner who knowingly withholds during a Confessional
is also subject to being named an interested party at the
minister's Comm Ev.

A parishioner who knowingly withholds during an HCO
Confessional is subject to double penances.

The charge (in addition to any other charges) is:
NONCOOPERATION WITH ENFORCING CONFESSIONAL TECHNOLOGY.


  BENEFITS

Those who apply Confessional technology are highly valued
and produce great gains for their pcs and produce an
improved environment generally.

Confessional technology and its application is essential to
the attainment of spiritual freedom, heightened
responsibility and causativeness and the betterment of
conditions.


L. RON HUBBARD
Founder


==================
099. HCOB  8 MAR 82R r. 24 Apr 83 CONFESSIONALS AND NON-INTERFERENCE ZONE


HUBBARD COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Saint Hill Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex

HCO BULLETIN OF 8 MARCH 1982R
REVISED 24 APRIL 1983

FSO and AOs:
Case Supervisors
Auditors
Tech/Qual
MAAs


     CONFESSIONALS AND THE

     NON-INTERFERENCE ZONE


Refs:
HCOB 23 Dec. 71 Solo C/S Series 10 C/S Series 73 THE NO-INTERFERENCE AREA
HCOB 7 Sept. 64 II PTPs, OVERTS AND ARC BREAKS
HCOB 13 Sept. 65R OUT-TECH AND HOW TO GET IT IN
HCOB 29 Sept. 65 II THE CONTINUING OVERT ACT
HCOB 3 May 62R ARC BREAKS, MISSED WITHHOLDS
HCO PL 23 Feb. 70 QUALITY OF SERVICE
HCOB 13 Oct. 82 C/S Series 116 ETHICS AND THE C/S
HCOB 28 Sept. 82 C/S Series 115 MIXING RUNDOWNS AND REPAIRS

_________

It has long been known that people do not make gains when
audited over undisclosed overts and withholds and that a 
withhold missed in auditing can cause quite an adverse reaction.

Because it has not previously been specified whether
Confessionals could be done during the Non-Interference
Zone, it tended to leave the matter open to interpretation,
and a common interpretation has been that one must not do
any kind of Confessional or O/W pulling during the
Non-Interference Zone.

But what about a case who is out-ethics and not making progress 
due to continuous overts and withholds or, even worse, undisclosed
overts or crimes against Scientology? Such a case won't
make any progress until these are gotten off.

A person who is NCG, nattery, critical or otherwise
exhibiting O/Ws or out-ethics must be handled so that he
can make case gains. And must not be continued in auditing
until this is done.

This applies to pre-OTs as well as pcs and specifically
also applies to pre-OTs on OT III; on New OT IV, OT Drug
Rundown; on New OT V, Audited NOTs; on New OT VII, Solo 
NOTs - the same as it applies to any other grade or OT 
section.

It is a CRIME to let a pre-OT get onto an OT section in
that condition in the first place. And it is also a CRIME
to continue the error and not remedy the matter right away.


CAUTION

A pre-OT who is running well and making case gain should
not be interrupted.

And, where a person in the Non-Interference Zone does need
O/Ws pulled, the auditor must first obtain a C/S okay.


SUMMARY

By following these lines, you will save some pre-OTs who
otherwise would not make it at all!


L. RON HUBBARD
Founder


==================
