Remimeo
HUBBARD COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Saint Hill Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex
HCO BULLETIN OF 14 JUNE 1977
(HCOB 30 AUGUST 71RA ISSUES I & 11)
(BTB 30 AUGUST 71 ISSUE I RG)
PAID COMPLETIONS SIMPLIFIED
Board Technical Bulletin 30 August 71 Issue I RF Revised 24 September 76,
RF-I, Issue I RF-I, I RF-2 are hereby cancelled. It is not valid anyway, nor any
previous BTB on the subject of student, preclear or interneship Paid Completions as
they and their series cancel an HCOB. BTBs cannot cancel HCOBs.
HCO Bulletins from 30 August 71 Issue I and Issue II forward dealing with Paid
Comps, student and pc points and ending with 30 August 71R Issue I are likewise
cancelled.
In their place is the formula given in LRH ED 153RK of 14 June 77.
1.
 Major Training Service 20 Points
2.
 Major Processing Service 5 Points
3.
 Minor Service 2 Points
MAJOR TRAINING SERVICE
This is defined as a certificate level action requiring around a month to complete.
Examples are HSDC, Class I, Class II, Class III, Class IV. The Student Hat is
included as a major course even if covered in payment by a Class course. The Primary
Rundown, OEC, Senior Class IV, Expanded Dianetics, Salesmanship Course, any
formal special course, but not Dept 17 courses.
Any interneship for a single class counts equally to a full course and is 20 points.
Saint Hills get 80 points for a completed SHSBC and 80 points for a Senior
SHSBC as these are very long courses.
AOs get 20 points for every Advanced Course completed and successfully Solo
audited (see auditing points as well for AO Solo).
When scholarships form part of any training fee and when the balance was fully
paid and the service successfully completed the full points of the course are credited to
Paid Comps.
MAJOR PROCESSING SERVICE
This is simply any 12 1/2 hour intensive completed on any formal HGC process-
ing. It includes any rundown, Word Clearing or auditing action received by the
preclear.
Saint Hills are the same but with an additional 5 points of each part of Power
completed.
AOs get a credit of 2 points for every 12 1/2 hours Solo audited.
Free auditing or service, student co-audits, staff auditing do not count on this stat.
316
MINOR (DIVISION 6) SERVICES
These are any and all courses, services, co-audits requiring around I to 2 weeks to
deliver.
These include HAS, TRs, HQS, public co-audits, any course or counselling or
public paid action offered by Department 17.
These minor services must be paid, attended and completed to count on the stat.
No points at all may be taken for any service the person did not complete to the
end.
BONUS POINTS
The three classes of service are interchangeable for the purposes of bonus.
Anyone who, having successfully completed a (1), (2) or (3) service who then re-
signs up for any other (1), (2) or (3) service is credited with double the amount of the
service just completed.
These bonus points are intended to ensure:
A.
B.
C.
Quality of service.
Re-sign ups.
Bettered organization.
Any Reg. Public or Div 2, may sign up or re-sign up for any or all the org’s
services.
Bonus points are received for every student or pc sent to an SH or AO, meaning
double for the last service taken in the sending org.
PACKAGE SALES
Where packages are sold such as multiple intensives or several courses, Paid
Comps are credited on the successful completion of each part of the package—such as
each 12 1/2 intensive and the bonus points for the last intensive or course are auto-
matically credited. This awards package sales. They must of course be fully paid to
count as Paid Comps or bonuses.
No bonus points at all may be taken unless the person actually signs up for the
next or another org service.
PENALTIES
The lack of bonus points on those who blow, request refunds etc. operates as a
penalty. Recovery or good handling so as to avert refund, as in ARC break pgms,
operates to restore the Paid Comps and, if new service is signed up for, the bonus
points that would otherwise have been denied the stat are now restored to it.
F/N VGIs ratio at the Examiner is retained as per the original HCOB 30 August
71. In any given day where the F/N ratio at the Examiner falls below 90%, at the
Examiner, there is a penalty of one point subtracted from Paid Comps for each No
below 90%. There is one point added to Paid Comps for each % above 90% for any
given day where F/N VGIs ratio at the Examiner is above 90%.
If there is an unhandled red tag that is left unhandled for more than 24 hours, ALL
HGC (or AO Solo & HGC) Paid Comps are lost for that day and for every successive
day that that pc remains red tagged.
317
For every day there is no HAS, full-time competent Recruiter, a Qual Sec and a
Staff Section Officer single-hatted on post in the org by reason of no appointment (not
by reason of occasional absence by reason of leave or a day off) the CO or ED loses all
his Paid Comps.
VERIFICATION
All Paid Comps and bonus computations must be verified by HCO. This verifica-
tion consists of examining the actual invoices for the completed service to ensure it is
fully paid, examination of C&A records and courses to ensure it was actually
completed. For bonuses verification consists of examination of the actual invoices for
re-sign up and the past invoices of completion of the last service and other records to
ensure the service was fully paid and fully completed.
Of course the easiest way to verify is to have an up-to-date filed into CF with the
invoices going into them.
Any query or question concerning this HCOB is to be referred to LRH Comm
International via the local and Continental LRH Comm.
BDCS:LRH:dm.dr
Copyright © 1977
by L. Ron Hubbard
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
L. RON HUBBARD
Founder
for the
BOARDS OF DIRECTORS
of the
CHURCHES OF SCIENTOLOGY

