Remimeo
All Auditors
All Supervisors
All Interneships
HUBBARD COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Saint Hill Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex
HCO BULLETIN OF 24 JANUARY 1977
URGENT AND IMPORTANT
TECH CORRECTION ROUND-UP
Auditors and Scientologists for 27 years have tended to be suspicious of HCOBs
and Policy Letters not written by myself.
Until a few months ago my opinion was that this, while flattering, was not en-
tirely justified.
However, these last few months have sharply changed my belief into total agree-
ment with all those who have expressed some fear of reinterpretations of bulletins by
others.
I have been engaged for some months now in a round-up of out tech issues.
And I have found, I am sorry to say, that mice have been gnawing at the pillars of
the Bridge, putting up traffic barriers and false detour signs.
I have been finding serious out tech issues and correcting them.
Whether because of misunderstood words (the commonest cause of out tech alter-
ations) or other reasons, there have been a staggering number of tech sectors that have
been corrupted by issues by others that alter-ised.
The corrections I have been doing have been, are being or will be issued shortly.
However, not all auditors and Scientologists keep pace with current issues and so I am
here giving you a rapid summary of the gross departures from standard tech which have
occurred in the past 3 or 4 years and their corrections.
So you were right!
A very few people (3 or 4) have wittingly or unwittingly brought about outnesses
which could easily make the difference between successful case handling and failed
cases.
Action has been taken to handle them and there are a great many good people at
work now in compiling and reissuing the workable tech which I developed in the first
place.
It is now forbidden to write an HCOB or an HCO PL and sign my name to it.
If anyone helped compile it or wrote it, my name is followed by “Assisted
by_____” the person who helped get it back together at my directions.
Also no Board Technical Bulletin may cancel an HCOB.
So from here on you are relatively safe.
I am always the first to tell you and this is no exception.
TECHCORRECTIONS
274
There follows here a long list of incorrect procedures or data found to have been
issued.
Also a brief rundown of the correct procedure will be found, which is the correct
and standard tech.
What makes tech correct? When it doesn’t get results it is incorrect. When it gets
the expected result it is correct.
My own writings and researches are based wholly upon things that got and get
results.
When another, through misunderstood words or other reasons, “interprets” or
changes the original tech, it has been the general experience that results are not ob-
tained.
By studying this list you may very well find some alter-ised points which caused
you to have trouble or which caused confusion.
Therefore, the subjects themselves are described in summary form.
Not all issues are out yet which accomplish full correction. Their HCOB numbers
therefore cannot be given. Some of the issues are not yet released but will be soon.
However, there is no reason to deny you the essence of the material and so I am giving
you the full list to date.
I trust this list and HCOB restore some stability.
I hope that any failures you may have had due to alter-ised materials will be
spotted by you. And that you will be able to apply some of these right now and get the
full materials later.
I like results, you like results. And the following may include some of the reasons
you may have had a hard time with some sessions.
I am sorry for that. I have come back on tech lines especially to correct it, and
have spent seven months spotting areas where there has been trouble or failures,
evaluating them and discovering the alter-is of original materials and issues. In many
cases the alter-is sure was hidden. This completes 7 months of search for tech out-
nesses.
Here is the list.
A: PTS HANDLING
The first shock (which actually began this current search for out tech issues) was
the discovery that PTS conditions were going unhandled across the world and had been
for some time.
“PTS” means Potential Trouble Source and means the person is affected adversely
by a suppressive in his life. A PTS person can be a lot of trouble to himself and to
others. The condition is not too difficult to handle and to find that all the tech of
handling it was in disuse explained why there had been a lot of trouble and upset on
various lines.
After a great deal of search, it was found that PTS handling and another rundown
(The Vital Information Rundown) had been restricted only to Expanded Dianetics. Thus
one would find on pcs’ programs that they were supposed to go all the way through
Dianetics and their grades before their PTS condition was handled. In actual fact a
person who is PTS cannot be audited on anything else until the PTSness has been
straightened out. This was operating as an effective barrier to cases.
275
Fortunately, the Technical Bulletin Volumes were not quite off the press and this
one was caught with HCOB 27 July 1976 which will be found on page 428 of Volume
VIII.
The first thing you do for a pc in any grade or without grades is handle his
PTSness.
As long as the subject was hot I decided to look further into it to make sure that
the actual tech was still available and to get a pilot done to verify its use in actual
practice since few had had any PTS handling for a couple of years.
I initiated a pilot project and it was well executed by CS-5.
The results of this project are found in HCOB 20 Oct 1976.
The outcome of this further research as contained in that HCOB was that the
person, for full handling, should be gotten through his PTSness and then should study
the complete pack of PTS/SP Checksheet, BPL 31 May 71RC, so that he knows the
full mechanics that had been wrecking his life. This is contained in HCO PL of 20 Oct
1976.
While the above named checksheet is quite adequate, a project is now in progress
to collect up all original LRH Case Supervisor notes (C/Ses) and handwritten materials
on PTSness so that additional issues may be brought out and the checksheet extended.
The reason for this is that there is a sector of non-audited handling of PTSness which
has never been fully released. This comes under the heading of additional material and
the existing PTS material is not only workable but is vital.
So this scene was rounded up and PTSness is again being handled successfully
over the world.
As an additional note, a cassette is now being made for general distribution and
sale which will soon be released so that PTS people can get one and send it or play it to
persons antagonistic to their leading a better life.
B: ORG DELIVERY
No auditing is a technical situation. The ability to procure auditing has a con-
siderable bearing on people’s case progress—naturally.
It was found that some organizations were slow in delivery and were backlogging
which tends to create a no auditing situation amongst pcs.
To remedy this backlog, the Technical Secretary of every org was given a new
statistic, “VALUE OF SERVICES DELIVERED.” This gives an index of the delivery
of the org and brings backlogs into view and will serve as a means of alleviating a no
auditing situation in the field where it exists as it calls the fact spectacularly to the
attention of all management, local and international. This is HCO PL 12 Nov. 76.
Along with this another situation came to view which again was a matter of other
people writing HCOBs.
The Director of Processing had been given in HCOB 16 June 1972R a statistic
which encouraged him to simply route pcs out of the org once they had completed a
small part of their processing.
Accordingly the statistic of the Director of Processing in an org was revised in
HCOB 16 June 1972RA to “the number of pcs routed back into the lines.”
The Director of Tech Services was given a stat of getting actions completed on
pcs.
276
With these two stats operating, one after the other, a no auditing situation in an
area is further alleviated.
People do not sufficiently consider no auditing as the most basic failure of cases.
It seems so “of course” that it gets entirely overlooked yet it can cause a great deal of
trouble.
C: HSDC RE-DO
The first inkling that the Hubbard Standard Dianetics Course curriculum had gone
adrift was noticing that two key drills had been omitted and even cancelled by others
even though they were vital to an auditor’s skill in handling a Dianetic session.
These drills were Dianetic Training Drills 101, 102, 103 and 104. These have to
do with student auditors remembering their commands in session, making him practiced
in using commands while handling his meter and admin, training him to use the right
command in the right place according to what the pc does and finally training him to use
commands and handle the session in spite of any and all distractions or reactions from a
pc. Obviously if a Dianetic auditor cannot do these things he cannot run a Dianetic
session.
These drills now have been emphatically reinstated in HCOB 19 July 1969R
reissued 9 Dec 1976; they are for use in all Dianetic training.
Looking into this further, I found that there was a new unauthorized Dianetics
Course which supposedly was based on Dianetics Today being issued which would be
a sort of a competitive course to an HSDC. In following this further it was found that
even the most fundamental formats of the HSDC which I personally developed and
piloted had been grossly alter-ised, that a number of persons had been writing HCOBs
on the subject, and that the format had been lost.
The original HSDC is being gathered together at this time with all instructions,
C/Ses and drills in the pattern and format which was originally developed and which
DID make GREAT auditors. So you can expect a considerable resurgence in the quality
of Dianetic auditing some time in the future.
At the same time, a new course, which makes a senior Dianetic auditor, is being
put together which is a post-graduate step after a person has become an HSDC. This
will take in all the materials found in Dianetics Today and should cover areas of special
Dianetic application.
D: ROCK SLAMS
A rock slam (R/S) is defined as “a crazy irregular slashing motion of the needle.”
This particular meter reaction was found to be relatively unknown to auditors on
an examination I made of some worksheets. They were calling dirty needles, dirty
reads, rocket reads, body motion and even ticks as “R/Ses.” They were also missing
real R/Ses.
As the R/S is probably the single most important and dangerous read on the
meter, clarifications of this were in order.
Accordingly I wrote HCOB 10 Aug 1976, “R/Ses, WHAT THEY MEAN” and
caused to be written from my notes HCOB 1 Nov 1974R, “ROCK SLAMS AND
ROCK SLAMMERS.”
For a pc to be branded as an R/Ser is a very serious thing. Also for a real R/Ser to
be overlooked by an auditor is a catastrophe both to the pc and to those around that
particular person.
Therefore, this is very dangerous ground to have wrong.
277
These issues will help to clarify that.
At the same time I’m currently at work on a video tape which will be available in
Academies some time in the future, which gives all meter reads.
Meanwhile, don’t make any mistakes on R/Ses. Read those bulletins.
Another confusion in this sector was how to define and identify a “List 1 R/Ser.”
All characteristics given in a list issued as HCOB 1 Nov 74 and signed by another
with my name were stated to have to be present before a person was a “List 1 R/Ser.”
The incorrect HCOB is on page 344 Vol VIII of the HCOB Volumes and will be
corrected in later editions.
“List 1” refers to Scientology related terminals as found on page 57 of The Book
Of E-Meter Drills.
The additional characteristics on this list only help to look for a List 1 R/S. I
issued HCOB 1 Nov 1974R revised 30 Dec 1976 which now corrects this error.
A List 1 R/Ser is simply one who R/Ses on List 1.
E: SEC CHECKING AND INTEGRITY PROCESSING
Following down the trail of auditors missing R/Ses, it was found that Sec Check-
ing had become a nearly lost art.
Sec Checking means, unfortunately, “Security Checking.” That it was so mis-
named in its origins obscures the fact that Confessionals have been part and parcel of
religion nearly as long as religion has existed.
In actual fact the meter simply gets a pastor or minister over the very dangerous
situation of missing a withhold on his parishioner. A person with a missed withhold
can become very upset with the person who misses it; the meter, properly operated,
makes sure that none are missed.
In an effort to get around what was thought to be a public relations scene, the
name “Security Checking” was changed to “Integrity Processing.” This was also a PR
error because the actual truth of the matter is it originated as “Confessional” and should
have simply been changed back to “handling of confessions.”
This administrative demand of name alteration threw the original issues on “Sec
Checking” into disuse.
Additionally “Integrity Processing” did not include all the tech of Sec Checking.
And some even thought they were different subjects!
The loss of Sec Checking, more properly called Confessionals, and the failure to
use a meter to verify withholds resulted in many student blows (dropouts) and has
permitted the continuance of a great deal of natter and upset which are simply the result
of missing withholds on people.
When you realize that a lot of the trouble of the Roman Catholic Church probably
arose through not having a meter to verify the completeness of Confessionals, you can
see what the loss of Sec Checking would do to our own churches and organizations. In
other words, we were about to repeat history!
All this original “Sec Checking,” properly Confessional, tech is being rounded up
again and will be issued in checksheet form and there will be courses in “The Handling
of Confessionals.” But even before you receive these, you should resume the use of
278
this metered tech as it will save you having people “mad at you” simply because you
have missed withholds on them.
It is highly self-protective both from the viewpoint of the auditor and the organi-
zation to have the proper metered handling of Confessionals fully in.
BTB 31 Aug 1972RA “HCO CONFESSIONAL PROCEDURE” clarified the
matter but this bulletin was on a very limited distribution and is not known. It contains
the tech I developed on Sec Checking in the autumn of ‘72.
There should be no further confusion in this matter. “Sec Checking,” “Integrity
Processing” and “Confessionals” are all the exact same procedure and any materials on
these subjects is interchangeable under these titles.
The materials when all recollected and consolidated and reissued will be under the
title of “Confessionals.” But even before that reaches you, you had better determine to
become an expert in it, since an auditor’s inability to handle this is a fast route to “how
to win enemies and wrongly influence people.”
F: EXPANDED DIANETICS OVERHAUL
Expanded Dianetics began in development in 1970. It is a very fully developed
subject. However, for some reason or another, the total materials of Expanded Dia-
netics were never packaged and exported even when it was reported that they had been.
Thus auditors who have been trained as Expanded Dianetics auditors had been denied
considerable key materials and have even lost the reason for Expanded Dianetics.
Contributing to this was the removal of “Sec Checking” (Confessionals) materials
from the Expanded Dianetics Course to make up the “Integrity Processing Rundown.”
Thus the course was stripped even further, for an Expanded Dianetics auditor has to be
very expert in the handling of Confessionals.
The actual extent of Expanded Dianetics can be described as follows: “Ex Dn
consists of all the work I did on psychos and very difficult cases from 1970 forward,
my C/Ses, case histories, any tape lectures or notes, which includes as well all data
known to date on Confessionals, and all data on PTSes. The product of the course is an
auditor who can handle psychos, R/Sers and any person’s evil intentions as well as any
PTSes.”
That would be the full extent and skill of an Expanded Dianetics auditor. There is
considerable data connected with the subject and it is the only data, proven, workable
data, Man has on the subject of neurosis and psychosis, and is the first breakthrough
made in this field as to its actual cause. This also embraces criminality.
While we are very far from being in the business of handling psychos, not all
psychos are in institutions or classified as psychos in this society. Furthermore PTS
persons become PTS to people who are usually psycho.
Thus this whole scope and breadth of Expanded Dianetics has to be and is being
recompiled and issued.
Furthermore the position of Expanded Dianetics on the Grade and Class Chart
was muddied up. Actually Expanded Dianetics can be given after a Drug Rundown,
after Standard Dianetics, after Scientology grades, after Power, after OT III and at any
point upwards after completion of Grade OT III.
A PTS Rundown can be given without regard to whether the person had had
Expanded Dianetics or not. A PTS Rundown can be given anywhere and better had be.
An auditor is trained on Expanded Dianetics after he has become an HSDC, a
Class IV auditor.
279
An auditor does not have to be an Expanded Dianetics auditor in order to deliver a
PTS Rundown. All he has to do is complete the PTS Checksheet and should be a Class
IV in order to audit it. There are even some portions of the PTS Checksheet,
particularly as it would be revised, which can be delivered by a person who is not
trained as an auditor at all, but this would be non-audited handling which consists
mainly of coaching the person as to how to handle his scene.
The complete Expanded Dianetics tech is, as I have said, being recompiled, issued
and gotten back in.
G: WORD CLEARING
Having discovered an executive who had “been word cleared” by a “Word
Clearer” but who then required more than 4 1/2 hours to clear the first two pages of the
same material when handled by a higher classed auditor, I investigated the extent of
Word Clearing training and use being out.
A study of the Word Clearing Series was ordered and it was found that there was
little concentration on metering and TRs.
These seem to have been slighted because Word Clearing starts with the phrase “I
am not auditing you” and this apparently has been taken to mean that one didn’t have to
know his meter and TRs in order to word clear. HCOB 10 January 1977, Word
Clearing Series 55, “ HOW TO WIN WITH WORD CLEARING” is a result of this
investigation and should be given particular importance.
Another factor was spotted and is handled in Board Technical Bulletin 12 January
1977 Revised 16 January 1977, which was issued as a result of my having found that
Word Clearers had a wrong stat. The stat of Well Done Auditing Hours would not
apply to a Word Clearer. Their stat is now “Number of Misunderstood Words honestly
found and fully handled in applicable materials.”
Another action is found in HCO Policy Letter 10 January 1977, “ETHICS AND
WORD CLEARING,” wherein “Any Word Clearer who word cleared materials on
which misunderstoods have been found at a later date shall be summoned to a Court of
Ethics.”
The phrase “I am not auditing you” does not excuse ignorance on the Word
Clearer’s part of a meter or a poor command of TRs. Of course this must also include
his knowledge of Word Clearing tech. His TRs and metering must be excellent.
The marvelous wins that can be gotten with Word Clearing had been lost and with
this should now be recovered.
H: F/N TA POSITION
The subject of missing F/Ns (floating needles) on pcs is very important as a pc
who has had an F/N missed becomes overrun and can be very upset and his case can
even be stalled.
The first instance I ran into of this (some years ago) had to do with the sensitivity
setting on the meter. Most auditors apparently simply would set a sensitivity knob on 5
and leave it there, regardless of how the pc advanced and regardless of who they were
auditing. This would give them extremely wide F/Ns which would hit the pin, on one
or both sides, and hang up as they were unable to keep the needle on “set.” The correct
way to go about this is to always set the sensitivity knob by pc can squeeze. When the
pc squeezes the cans, the sensitivity knob should give about a third of a dial drop, no
more, no less. Only in that way can you keep a needle on the “set” mark on the dial.
Otherwise, F/Ns get missed. Some pcs have to go up to 128 (32) which is a front face
meter setting to get such a fall on a can squeeze and I have just noted a pc who had such
a wide F/N swing that the sensitivity had to be set at 1 (32), which is about as low as
the meter can go without turning off, and even then this pc got a half a dial can squeeze
280
fall and so had to be watched very carefully so that F/Ns were not missed. I mention
this in case it has dropped out again.
The current discovery which just dropped with a clang was that in one interne-
ship, an interne supervisor was using verbal tech which had then spread all over the
world to the effect that you MUST NOT call an F/N an F/N unless it were between 2
and 3 on the tone arm dial, and that any F/N type motion which occurred with the TA
above 3 or below 2 could not possibly be called an F/N. This was his own craziness
and he wished it off with a bunch of verbal tech on an awful lot of auditors and caused
an enormous amount of pcs subsequently to be very unhappy.
The result and remedy of this is contained in HCOB 10 December 1976, which is
marked Urgent and Important. It is marked that way because apparently there are very
few pcs around right now who haven’t had F/Ns missed on them.
This HCOB should be very carefully studied. However, in brief, the correct pro-
cedure for out of range (above 3 or below 2) F/Ns is:
1.
 Look at the pc’s indicators,
2.
3.
Call the F/N regardless of its range, if the indicators are alright,
Mark down the actual TA position when the F/N is indicated,
4.
Handle the false TA at the earliest opportunity when it will not intrude into
the current cycle of auditing,
5.
On any pc you suspect has had his F/Ns disregarded because of false TA,
you C/S for and get run a repair and rehab of points in his auditing when
F/Ns were missed on him.
In other words, have your sensitivity correct and when an F/N occurs outside of
the range between 2 and 3, know that it is an F/N by the needle motion and by the pc s
indicators and call it, indicate it and put it down on the worksheet. Note the actual TA
position. Then, before the next session or after you have finished a crucial cycle of
auditing on the pc, in the next several sessions, go into the whole subject of his false
TA and handle it.
Missing an F/N is very cruel on a pc because it invalidates his having released the
charge on the subject on which he is being audited and tends to tell him that he is not
better even though he feels better. There is one historic case of an auditor having gotten
an F/N in the first ten minutes of auditing and then, because it occurred slightly above
3, auditing the pc for an additional three hours with the TA climbing, the pc unhappy
and no results being obtained from the processing. This sort of thing is pretty
gruesome.
Verbal tech is no substitute for HCOBs.
I: FALSE TA
Having written the HCOB just above telling auditors that they call the F/N
regardless of where it was, providing the pc’s indicators were OK and then handle the
TA on the pc, I found that issues on correcting false TA had been messed up.
In both HCOB 29 Feb 1972R Revised 23 Nov 1973 and its successor HCOB 29
Feb 1972RA Revised 23 Apr 1975, careless reading could imply that the False TA
Checklist was audited on the pc like any other prepared list. In other words this idiocy
set in that the meter reads were going to be used to divine whether or not the meter
knew whether or not the pc was responding properly. The list actually, is a list of
things the auditor manually, mechanically checks on the pc. He does not consult reads
and he does not assess anything on the pc; he simply personally does a checklist and
281
this was the checklist. It was not assessed to find a reading item. Therefore an auditor
trying to correct false TA and get the TA to read between 2 and 3 by using a meter to
assess the list would never find out what was going on and would be unable to get the
meter into that position.
Accordingly, HCOB 13 Jan 1977 was directed to be written, and the full and
entire checklist to be done by the auditor on the pc recompiled and updated. It is being
issued as HCOB 21 Jan 1977.
Therefore it will now be very easy for an auditor to correct the false TA on a pc
and he will be able to get the meter tone arm properly between 2 and 3.
You know, don’t you, that a TA goes up more than a division when you start
using a one-hand electrode? This is not a “false TA” that you can correct. Solo auditors
using just one hand have their TAs riding around 3.7 and 4.5 on the tone arm. This is
not a case of false TA, it is always checked by using both hands on the cans at the start
and end of session. But here again false TA can occur if the hands are too dry or too
wet or the can size is wrong.
You shouldn’t have very much trouble with this. Actually it’s a very simple
matter, but the outnesses in this sector have caused an awful lot of trouble and I was
very happy to be able to find the erroneous issues and get it straight for you.
A video which will eventually become available in Academies will also cover false
TA handling.
J: INCOMPLETE AUDITING FOLDERS
For some time Word Clearers, Sec Checkers, Ethics Officers and Cramming
Officers have neglected to include their worksheets in the pc’s actual folder.
This causes considerable difficulty for a Case Supervisor since the person may
have wrong lists in “Why Finding,” may have R/Sed on a Sec Check, may have had
incomplete or incorrect Word Clearing and other tech outnesses in between regular
sessions. Where these folder omissions occur an FESer (Folder Error Summary maker)
is often prevented from finding where the case went wrong.
Then there is the matter of no folders at all. Somebody has lost them or mislaid
them, yet some auditor needs them desperately to find out lists or to actually verify
grades attained. The preservation and availability of auditing folders to the next auditor
or a Case Supervisor years up the track is of very great importance.
Accordingly HCO PL 28 Oct 1976 and HCOB 28 Oct 1976, C/S Series 98
(which are both the same equal texts) were written by me to remedy these very
dangerous tech outnesses.
K: FALSIFYING AUDITOR REPORTS
Along with missing reports it was found that there had been some difficult situa-
tions created by the falsification of auditing reports.
From the small matter of saying that the TA was at 3.0 when actually is at 4.5
when the F/N occurred (thus obscuring the fact that false TA had to be handled), up to
the very large crime of faking the fact that certain processes had been run when they had
not just to get a completion or a bonus and up to falsifying the data or text which the pc
gave, this matter of false Auditor Reports can cause enormous amounts of trouble.
The consequences and detection of the falsification of auditing reports is now
contained in HCO Policy Letter 26 Oct 1976 Issue 1, the same text issued as HCOB 26
Oct 1976 Issue 1, C/S Series 97. This makes even the minor falsification of an auditing
282
report a matter of Comm Ev and, if the crime is proven beyond reasonable doubt, there
can result a cancellation of all certificates and awards, a declare and an expulsion order.
If you think this is unnecessarily harsh, think of the poor pc.
L: CHECKLIST FOR FESers
It can happen that a pc is taken up into new grades without having completed
earlier, more basic grades and without being set up for the later grade. This can result in
somebody going through several grades just to cure a mild somatic or a PTP. It can also
throw a pc in over his head.
For a long time there have been checklists showing the requirements for most
major grades.
A recent instance of a pc going all the way through to OT 111 who had not com-
pleted anything caused me to investigate the reasons behind this.
It was discovered that very few Case Supervisors ever check a folder to find out if
the pc has actually made the grades lower than the one that he is about to be put on.
A further check showed that few C/Ses ever looked up the earlier history of the
case and this resulted in pcs being put up through levels for which they have not been
set up and past levels they have not made.
A further investigation showed that these checklists were not in existence for
every grade and action.
It became obvious that the people who should be using these checklists would be
the Folder Error Summary auditors. These FESers are the only ones who thoroughly
go through the folders and Case Supervisors depend on them. Thus if the FESer is not
required to verify whether the pc has properly attained the level he is about to go onto
and if he has been set up for the level, then nobody is going to check this over and a
great many pcs are going to be audited on skipped gradients without set-ups and will
get into difficulty.
I have ordered that checklists be made up for FESers to use for each major grade
so that they can check off the requisites for each grade and thus handle this out gradient
situation. These checklists are being worked on at this time and will be issued in the
near future.
In the meantime it is the duty of the FESer to indicate whether or not the pc has
actually reached each grade to which he has attested and whether or not he is properly
set up for the grade he is about to be embarked upon.
M: AUDITOR RECOVERY
It can happen here and there that an auditor who has been auditing eases off and
ceases to audit.
There are various reasons for this. One of the common ones is a skipped gradient
in his training. Another one is misunderstood words and the commonest one is overts
of omission or commission on the subject of auditing or pcs which have not been
handled.
An LRH ED 176RB INT originally issued on 24 April 1972 was unfortunately
revised 2 or 3 times by other people and lost its punch.
I reworked this and restored it to its earlier form on 7 Nov 1976 and this is avail-
able as LRH ED 176RB INT. The investigation and reissue being assisted by CS-7.
283
It is available in this form and in the near future will be issued as an HCOB.
N: STUDY TECH
During an investigation of pricing I discovered that “The Student Hat” had dis-
appeared from use and in its place had been put an optional Basic Study Manual. The
fact is that the Basic Study Manual has its own uses and is very valuable but it does not
begin to replace The Student Hat.
This meant actually that study tech had more or less disappeared in Academies and
was not in general use.
The actions taken were to make The Student Hat mandatory on a one-time basis
before the next major course a person took and to include it free as a bonus to the
person taking that course.
The Student Hat has been restored in totality as a requisite for study tech. This
will make study much more positive and much faster.
The Basic Study Manual was put forward sometime ago as a means of getting
staffs hatted on their hat materials and as a fast method of getting people reading the
materials of their posts. I suppose that is how it drifted over onto major courses, where
it has no business.
Thus The Student Hat is back full force and if there are any blown students
around you should realize that the reason for their blow is either lack of study tech or
undisclosed overts. The thing to do is to get them back and push them through The
Student Hat so they can win at their studies and get their overts off so they can look
their fellow man in the eye.
There has been another training outness found which I will mention in passing. In
some interneships the entire Qual staff of the org has been employed in checking out
students. Actually such checkouts are done by the students themselves, on each other
where starrates are required in interneships.
It has also been found that twinning on theory occasionally creeps back in. People
have not noticed that twinning on theory, meaning two students always study together,
went out many years ago and has been cancelled. It makes a noisy classroom and
prevents students from getting through their courses rapidly. Twinning on theory sets
up too many difficulties such as the loss of one’s twin by reason of graduation or
transfer, being sent to Cramming, an odd number of people on the course so that one is
without a twin and so on.
Practical is another matter. In practical drilling is done on the twin basis.
The theory and practical are never in the same room; they must be in different
rooms. The theory room must be very, very quiet where a student can concentrate and
the practical room must be so situated as to allow students to make noise. If any
Academy has a noisy theory classroom or if the Academy is difficult to study in, this is
probably what is in violation: probably the twinning is going on in theory or the theory
rooms are noisy. Only a practical room can be made noisy.
The two issues (putting twinning in on theory) have now been revised and can-
celled. They are HCOB 26 Nov 71, Tape Course Series 10, W/Cing Series 26
“HANDLING MISUNDERSTOOD WORDS ON TAPE RECORDED MATERIALS,”
which has been revised and cancelled by BTB 26 Nov 71RA (Tape Course Series 8,
W/C Series 26RA) of same title (Tech Volume IX, page 440). HCOB 7 Feb 72 Issue
11, W/Cing Series 31, “METHOD 3 WORD CLEARING BY THE STUDENT’S
TWIN” has been revised and cancelled by BTB 7 Feb 1972RA Issue II, W/Cing Series
31RA “METHOD 3 WORD CLEARING” (Tech Volume IX, page 448).
284
The main point is you want a quiet and orderly theory training room and put the
noisy demo and practical actions elsewhere. And also don’t hang up people on theory
because they lose their twins. Practical twins are highly interchangeable.
O: PROFESSIONAL RATES
It was found in some cases that pcs would enroll on courses and then never take
them just so they could have professional rates in their auditing.
This not only denied them the training they paid for but it was also making
organizations short of auditors.
Accordingly HCO PL 13 Nov 1976 was issued which clarified “professional
rates” which makes it necessary for an auditor to be fully classed in the class of that org
from which he is seeking service in order to qualify for a 50% professional discount in
auditing. This does not apply to his family.
What’s the matter with becoming an auditor? There are 2 or 3 billion pcs out there
and only a few of us auditors. Have a heart and also lend a hand. Furthermore how do
you know what good auditing is unless you’re trained?
P: SENIOR CASE SUPERVISOR LINE
It was recently found that the Senior Case Supervisor, in at least one large org.
spent most of his time giving advice to executives on personnel case requirements for
the crew! This is so far from the duties of a Snr C/S that the HCO PL outlining their
duties has been rewritten and has become HCO PL of 26 Sept 1974R, revised and
reissued 21 Jan 1977, which tells a Snr C/S in effect to look after the tech quality in his
org.
There is another modification on Snr Case Supervisors. Previously it was
necessary for someone to go to a distant org and become a Class VIII before he could
be qualified as the Snr Case Supervisor of an org. This is no longer necessary. HCO
PL 24 Oct 76 Issue III modifies these requirements so that a Snr Case Supervisor can
be trained by his local org.
In this same Policy Letter the award of Dean of Technology is outlined. These
would be gold certificate Case Supervisors. They are Saint Hill Special Briefing Course
Class VIII Course auditors who have attained the case level to the class of his org and
has a uniform record of case supervision.
This general overhaul of the Snr Case Supervisor and his lines and duties is in
effort to correct out tech and establish excellent tech in any org and its area.
Q: INTERNESHIPS
It was found that very few interneships were now being taught and an investiga-
tion undertaken by the Action Aide Flag Bureau at my orders, finally uncovered that
interneship checksheets had been added to and added to and stirred about until they had
become checksheets within checksheets, thus making interneships interminable.
As a result of this, a special mission was put on the job of reforming interneship
checksheets.
These checksheets have now been issued and exist for every level as Board Policy
Letters issued from 10 Nov 76 up through BPL 25 Nov 76 Issue 1. They have been
greatly simplified and have made interneships into very worthwhile actions.
These new simplified interneship checksheets are in full use at this time.
285
Along with this interneship program, HCO Policy Letter of 25 Oct 1976 has been
issued which requires that all past provisional certificates which have not been validated
by an interneship and which are one year or more old from the date of course
completion are cancelled. It states such students should be notified and should be
enrolled on the interneship for the class. If a properly conducted interneship is satis-
factorily completed, their permanent certificate may be reissued.
All of this is in an effort to get auditors straightened out, getting wins and making
them really proficient and professional in all areas of the world.
R: ILLEGAL PCs
It has occasionally happened that an auditor has had pushed off on him by
persuasion or pressure, cases who should not have been accepted by the org.
HCOB 6 Dec 1976 also HCO PL 6 Dec 76 (identical texts), make this a High
Crime.
Certain types of cases may not therefore be forced off on auditors by anyone, and
anyone seeking to force such a pc upon an auditor against policy, is actionable by a
Committee of Evidence.
S: EXPANDED GRADES BEING REDONE
It has been found that some processes were left out of Expanded Grades 0 to IV
and that in some cases these grades had been quickied. Therefore, all Expanded Grades
checklists are being reissued and will contain more extensive processes.
Until you have the new Expanded Grades checklists, the ones you are using are
still OK.
T: REPAIR LIST REVISED
Through an oversight, an incomplete Board Technical Bulletin 11 Aug 1972RA
revised 18 Dec 1974, C/S Series 83RA, was included on page 230 of Volume X of the
HCOB Volumes.
A far more extensive write-up, LRH ED 257 INT of 1 Dec 1974, existed which
gave much more data and many more prepared lists as repair tools for the auditor.
The LRH ED has now been issued as HCOB of 24 Oct 1976 C/S Series 96
“DELIVERY REPAIR LISTS.”
Although this issue has been updated to some degree, there are still one or two
repair lists omitted. Therefore, this is about to be issued again as C/S Series 96R,
which will include the additional and valuable lists.
U: ROUTING FORMS AND STAFF STATUSES
It has been found that Staff Status 0, 1 & 11, Sea Org Products 0, 1 & 11 and
Org Routing Forms were not in full agreement with one another.
This is taking a lot of straightening out and is very much in need of it, as in one
major org it was found to be impossible for a new staff member to route onto post!
This is under full coordination rewrite and will be issued in the near future.
V: STAFF SECTION OFFICER
286
I have for some time been concerned about the lack of care some orgs had been
giving their own staff members.
As a result HCO PL 22 May 1976 was issued which established the post of Staff
Section Officer, who was responsible for the training and the processing of staff mem-
bers.
To further enforce this, the Qual Divisions of orgs were given a new Gross Divi-
sional Statistic in HCO PL of 4 Nov 1976. This gave the dominant Qual Divisional
Statistic as “Fully qualified and trained staff members in the org. cumulative.”
Additionally, in HCO PL of 10 Nov 1976 certain staff courses were made manda-
tory in orgs.
So as not to neglect staff cases, even when auditors were absent, a whole new
project has been released concerning “co-audits.”
This is actually a recovery of lost tech. There used to be co-audits, very
successful ones, and they had their own special technology.
A tech mission to the UK, reassembled the tech and got staff co-audits going with
rave wins.
All of this technology and how it is done, has been issued as Board Technical
Bulletins dated around early December 1976 under the title of “Co-audit Series.”
Both the co-audit tech and Group Processing fell under the category of lost tech,
but have been restored, polished up and are being issued for full use.
W: UNISSUED RUNDOWNS
It came to my attention in July of ‘76 that about 5 years worth of my
developments on Flag had never been fully packaged up or issued for use. The reason
for this is, that the Tech Compilations Units which had previously worked on this were
disbanded in 1972 by the then CS-4 and was not reestablished.
Several years worth of intensive research and development are therefore back-
logged in being issued.
Only one of these areas of development is restricted to Flag, as it is the famous
“L” series of rundowns which require such technical accuracy that they can only be
audited by a Class XII.
The rest of the rundowns, however, are fully capable of being fully compiled
from the notes, lectures, issues and my case supervision notes and released.
Including the repackaging necessary for the HSDC, Expanded Dianetics and
reissue of Expanded Grades, all mentioned above, there were 9 rundowns in all which
were never compiled or exported.
For that matter, the much earlier Class Vial Course was added to and varied and it
also is being repackaged in its original form and exported and is now being taught again
in Advanced Orgs.
The remaining rundowns are being worked on for issue as never having seen the
light of day in Class IV, Saint Hill and Advanced Orgs.
All this is now being done. So soon this important new tech will appear and be
available in orgs.
287
X: ADVANCED GRADES
For a number of years people have wondered when OT VIII would be released.
Well, to tell you the honest truth, OT VIII has been in existence all those several
years, and to it has been added a very large number of OT grades. None of them have
been issued. Notes for all these grades are in existence.
What I have been waiting for is 2 or 3 months of free time to go over these
materials and write them up and make them available through Advanced Organizations.
Now I will make a bargain with you. If you get all the tech straightened out and
the orgs and flaps and emergencies off my lines and get your training in and your Word
Clearing in and everything flying and this civilization even more thoroughly pointed in a
civilized direction, you will buy me those 3 months’ worth of time so I will be able to
afford the time to write up all these Advanced Levels I have researched. Do your job
well and buy me these three months.
Is it a bargain?
LRH:act.lf.nt
Copyright © 1977
by L. Ron Hubbard
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
L. RON HUBBARD
Founder

