AN INTRODUCTION TO 
STANDARD TECH

A lecture given on 24 September 1968


As far as 7 is concerned, and 8, all the materials of 7 and 8 are sitting there, I haven’t written them up. There’s no reason to write up 7 and 8 without standard tech in up to 6. And, the other thing is I’m so far into 8 that 7 has gotten awfully dim. I’m just being lazy. And besides this, people haven’t been nice to me lately. They haven’t been nice to me. They here and there, here and there, why, there have been non-compliance’s with standard technology, and although people say, ”Yes, we’re doing just as you said”, and so forth, the review folders don’t follow. So, I, I think I won’t release 7 until auditing is standard through the world. Actually 7 is one of these little jolly old go-carts. 3 goes zig and 7 goes zag. And if a guy can’t audit at 7 he may as well quit. 
And you can talk all you want to about uh, the guys start getting into trouble, do you understand? They start getting into plenty, plenty, plenty, of trouble, if they can’t audit well at 3. Well, if they can’t audit well at 3, boy they’re going to go down for the third count if they can’t audit well at 7. ‘Cause 7 is much tougher to audit than 3, merely because it’s just more or less straight auditing job, but it’s got zig zags in it. You have to know your business.
And as far as 8 is concerned, well 8 is very airy-fairy, and uh, well I’ll give you some kind of a notion of it. The lower grades are dominant C, communication. They’re dominant C. Somewhere in the vicinity of Power, one passes into the band of R. And R runs on up to, pretty close I suppose, I haven’t made a graph of it, but somewhere around 3. And then from 3 on up it is pure A. That is the dominant. It’s affinity that runs on up from there. And when you get up into 8, why the three start to harmonic, one after the other. You get R and you get A and so on. Your dominant stress.
It is only because a person is out of dominant communication, or C, that you can have solo auditing at R6EW. He doesn’t any longer need a communication cycle. But he needs R. mainly and what he does is get heavy increases in R. And these increases in R move up, and if he has done all of his grades like a good boy, he will arrive at 3 with sufficient R to be able to flip over into A. And it’s uh, at 3 where it starts going into heavy affinity. Affinity is the dominant.
You get into all sorts of conditions. You, when you get 3 you start finding yourself loving everybody, and so forth. So these, these are just some of the considerations as they go up along the line.
Now, it’s actually just interesting. It doesn’t change anything. It’s where the person is progressing. But, if a person has neglected his grades, lower grades, and neglected C, and hasn’t picked his C up as he comes up through the grades, why when he gets into solo his reality is inadequate, and it is not possible for him to, in actual fact have any R on 3. No reality on 1. Well that means he’s out somewhere along the line, don’t you see? He hasn’t made it in that wise. And then if you find him hating everybody when he gets to, when he gets to 5, or something like this, well you know very well that he actually hasn’t made it there either. These’d just be tests of whether or not the guy is done.
You will find out, oddly enough, that the trouble with cases is a failure to make the grade. (Laughs) Not to make a horrible pun out of it, but if you were to hand Clearing Course materials to Joe Blow of Hoboken, if you were to hand the Clearing Course materials to Joe Blow of Hoboken you would find out that he would be in a completely unreal state. He doesn’t even restimulate. Most remarkable thing you ever heard in your life. He doesn’t even restimulate. What wall?
Now the E-Meter reads just above the level of the individual R. Pardon me, it reads just a tiny bit deeper than his extant R. So a fellow could be there, sick as a pup, his leg broke and everything else. Maybe he didn’t have any reality on anything that was wrong with him at all, and he doesn’t think anything is wrong with him. So you ask him, ”Is anything wrong with you?” And he’ll, ”No, feel fine.” Baffling. You’ll say he has no subjective reality. Well I don’t know why you’re using the word subjective. He just doesn’t have any reality, period. That’s all. (Laughs)

