CASE SUPERVISOR DO’S AND DONT’S THE TOTAL RATIONALE AND BACKGROUND OF AUDITING

A lecture given on 30 September 1968

Excerpt

Alright, now he is sitting in the engram, which is affecting him physiologically. Now there’s several ways to go about this sort of thing. If a fellow’s on OT 3 what do you do? You run down his present life and he can’t, couldn’t find any, and had one body thetan or something stupid like that. And you just find the this lifetime injury. He’s naturally mushed it all together. Find a this lifetime injury and TA or no TA, meter read or no meter read, to hell with it. Push him into it, make him run it. Run him on down the track and run an Incident 1. It’ll go straight to Incident 1, and it’ll go long fall, B/D, long fall, B/D, bow—bow—bow—bow. Now the PC, if he’s very status happy or something, is liable to come out of this explaining how this has nothing to do with him, and that there wasn’t anything there anyhow. And that there wasn’t anything there anyhow, and so on his reality level isn’t up to it. His grades, actually, were never run. You can just keep up this process, and all of a sudden his reality level, “Hey wait a minute. How can I keep running that same incident, only it’s a different incident every time? And I only had one, and I’ve now run three. I don’t get any pictures because when I went clear I ceased to mock up pictures, but I got these pictures. Is there some possibility I am haunted?”
Now it’d be a lead pipe cinch to take care of this “physiological, psycho somatic illness” on somebody with an unflat 3. But I can expect, over the years that all sorts of oddities and peculiarities will become invented as they have in the immediate past, so that the method of finding body thetans consists of getting him to scan over his body. Scan over his body, scan over his body, and scan on the right side of his body, the left side of his body, top of his body, bottom of his body. And nothing reads, so he doesn’t have any body thetans. I don’t know who the hell invented that but it walked in sideways and became standard operating procedure. It isn’t. It’s for the birds.
Now as you run a PC on this, this is a review approach, to a bird who can’t manage 3. You’ve got to be sure that his grades were actually run. Now that’s, that’s important. The rehab of his grades before you start anything like this. That brings his reality up. The amount of charge off is proportional to the reality of the PC. So get the charge off whenever you can, however you can. Run some chains of this particular character of one kind and another kind. And there it is. The PC is liable to keep on explaining to you how it’s all physiological and he ought to be, have his head cut off in surgery, or something. Actually the bird is dramatizing R6, which is full of medical doctors. And they carve away on a body, and oh man. The body finally comes down to nothing but raw meat, and then a skeleton. And the doctors are all so pleased. You know, just like they look, you know? That is, actually, totally in R6. Part of the 35 and three quarter day implant. Which is all pictures. You normally don’t get to this section of it, because I have moved you up to the beginning of it and it all goes pfffEt! You don’t get a full dress rehearsal of this. If you did, god help you. It’s a killer. You’d only get it by dropping into the middle of it. But every once in a while you have the body thetan of a space man standing up on top of a cliff and jumping down and jumping up again, or you have an odd picture, a woman’s head in a pit with a little baby along side the head. These, these are R6 pictures. And there’s just tons of them. There’s actually thousands of them. And this type of odd picture shows up. Something like this. Well actually, you try to run this too much on a; well, the, the guy who hasn’t been up through the grades doesn’t have enough charge off to see ‘em, anyhow. He can be the effect of them, but he doesn’t have enough charge off to see ‘em. Do you see? He can sort of have it all keyed in, but he’s not really there, and he’s not looking at the picture. So you normally can run these fellows perfectly safely.
Now if you really knew all there was to know about everything under the sun, moon and stars in the way of pictures in the bank; you don’t have to be an expert this way fortunately. But you would recognize something about it. Actually you can recognize it very easily by dating it. The date of R6 is seventy five million years ago. So you just say this stuck picture’s at seventy… It seems to you that it might be something at seventy five million years ago. If it is, why something’ll happen, and if it isn’t you wouldn’t get a read on the meter, if it is, and it’s some other date, why great. But that would be a little bit tricky to fool with because it’s a thirty five and three quarter day engram. Duration. Actually the duration can be much longer in the matter of duress. So it’s a bit touchy, but the probability is of it being in restimulation is very poor.
But the fellow can be the effect of it. For instance, there is cyclical illness which is dictated in the various R6 implants. A fellow was forced to get sick at the age of five, followed multiples of five, and he’s supposed to get sick from this and from that, and from the other thing. Measles and, you know he’s supposed to have and that’s certain. They predict his health, in other words. When he’s fifty he’s supposed to something or other. What they’re trying to do is make a body cave in. See?
Problem R6 was trying to solve was overpopulation. With some 250 billion inhabitants on this planet, the average through this federation was 178 billion, hundred and seventh eight billion beings per planet. They didn’t eat very much, they weren’t badly keyed in. But they reproduced too badly. And somebody thought he had this as a problem, so he tried to cut out the whole population. Naturally what he struck at was the second dynamic. So where you see aberrated second dynamic you’re looking straight at R6. Aberrated second dynamic, you’re looking at the PC having gone through R6, or body thetans through R6. Second dynamic exaggeration of a great aberration on, overindulgence of, so forth. You’re just looking at R6.
Now, running engrams can run into this zone or area, but the probability of them doing so, a person who doesn’t have enough charge off to do so, is very remote. Now the incident in common to all thetans, body thetans, all kinds of thetans as a thetantype thetan, is of course the Incident 1. And when you clip the 1 that separates them out from the mass every time. But sometimes up the line they get impacted together on some other type of incident. It can be quite deadly, actually, occasionally, because a cluster of them exerting pressure and so on can really knock somebodys’ block off. But there’s something else that isn’t totally understood about this by auditors. And that is simply this—that is doesn’t have to be a cluster to knock your block off. It can be just one. And then you get the phenomenon, run this little tiny body thetan, he turns out to be a great big body thetan. Very fascinating. But people who are below 3 of course have all the phenomena of body thetans.

Because these clusters can be so vicious and so hard on a body, one is apt to think that all pressures; this is another one that’s been introduced sideways in. Boy, people have been so god damned busy thinking, it isn’t even funny. It is fascinating, you know? I find more of these damn additives. You know? Like, if the person has pressure on his body he must have a cluster. It doesn’t follow, brother, it doesn’t follow. One thetan can give plenty of pressure on a body. And to give you some idea of how much, how much horrible action can be thrown into a body, or how much action or stress can be put on a body by a thetan, last year I busted my back, my arm and my knee. They healed up very rapidly. But it was all in doing things that were beyond the… my arm and my knee—They healed up very rapidly—But it was all in doing things that were beyond the ability of a body to stand, pick up or resist, see? I could resist ‘em all right. You, you get the idea?
