HUBBARD COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE 
Saint Hill Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex
HCO BULLETIN OF 15 AUGUST 1983 
AOs 
OT Review Auditors 
C/Ses 
Solo OT III Course and above

CONFIDENTIAL 

FLYING RUDS ON SOLO OT III AND ABOVE

(Ref: 	HCOB 16 Aug 83 	SOLO C/S Series No. 7 RUDS GOING OUT ON BTs 
HCOB 11 Aug 78 	RUDIMENTS, DEFINITIONS AND PATTER)

Flying rudiments at OT III and above is a piece of tech a Solo Auditor on III must know and be able to use. At this level, when a rudiment is out the Pre OT must be able to determine whose out-rudiment it is – his own, a BT’s or that of a cluster.

MISOWNERSHIP

Scientology axiom 29: “In order to cause an as-is-ness to persist, one must assign other authorship to the creation than his own. Otherwise his view of it would cause it’s vanishment.”
This Axiom is especially relevant to auditing at the level of OT III and above because at this level the Pre OT is handling other being than himself (BTs and Clusters). Axiom 29 tells us that it is necessary to establish correct ownership of charge in order to get an as-is-ness of the charge.
Furthermore, incorrectly assigning charge to the wrong being can cause by-passed charge (BPC) as it is now misowned.
Hence the instruction in the OT III materials that one must use a narrow attention span so as not to restimulate or confuse other BTs with the one being audited.
Finding charge without establishing whose charge it is, and fully handling the charge for that being, can result in a generality – the idea that the charge belongs to all – when it only belongs to one being. This can cause a wrong indication to the others to whom it does not belong.
Finding more than one charge without establishing whose charge it is, and fully handling that being, can result in a generality – the idea that the charge found belongs to all – when it only belongs to one being. This can cause an ARC Break or bad reaction as it acts as a wrong indication to the others to whom the charge does not belong. By correctly establishing the ownership of charge, and handling the correct charge on the being to whom it belongs, you get an as-is-ness of the charge.

HOW TO FLY THE RUDS

The rudiments questions which contain the word “you” (i.e. “Do you have an ARC Break?”) are for use on lower level Pcs, but not at OT III or above. When the word “you” is used in a rudiments question on a Pre OT who is OT III or above, it is evaluative. It says whose charge it is.
The correct wording of rudiments questions for use by the Solo Auditor on OT III or above is:
„Is there an ARC Break?”
„Is there a present time problem?”
„Is there a withhold?”
„Is there an overt?”
and when full ruds are being flown:
„Is there an invalidation?”
„Is there an evaluation?”
By using “Is there an/a ________?” you are not evaluating whose charge it is.
Then the Solo Auditor can establish whose charge it is by asking:
“ Is (charge found) mine? A BT’? A Cluster’s? and handle which of these read.
Note: Sometimes you may find that a charge can belong to and read on more than one of the above, in which case you would handle both reads, one at a time. It is also possible that an ARC Break, for example, could be shared by all present, and that it is the Pre OT’s out rud and also a BT’s or Cluster’s. The question used in this case would be “ Is it also (mine)? (a BT’s)? (a cluster’s)?”.
When one rudiment has been fully handled, using the steps above, the Solo Auditor continues on down the rudiments questions to the next reading rudiment and handles it as above.

EXCEPTION

Sometimes the rudiment will run and F/N and blow just on one of the first rudiment questions alone (such as, “ Is there an ARC Break?” or “ Is there a present time problem?”, etc.), and without differentiating whose charge it is.
It is possible that the Solo Auditor may not be able to determine whose it is. This is how rudiments run all the time on lower level cases. It just runs generally as the rudiment, without establishing whose it is. The trouble one can get into, however, is misownership, whereby you are running a charge that belongs to a BT as if it were your own (the Pre OT’s) charge. Or the charge of one BT is misowned as belonging to some other BT or Cluster.
When misownership of charge occurs, it won’t run or as-is or blow, you can’t F/N it, and it will start turning on more mass or solidity. If you get into this sort of situation, narrow enough attention span, sort out whose it is and handle accordingly.
But if when flying a rudiment, or other charge found such as a reading line on a prepared list, it just runs and blows, realize you’ve had a lucky break. Don’t interrupt this to try to find out whose it is or try to take it up again after it has blown.
This is obvious enough when it happens because as soon as you get onto the reading rudiment or reading line the charge starts coming off and the whole thing F/Ns and blows.
This is a special condition and if it doesn’t occur you always proceed according to the steps given under “How To Fly The Ruds”.

RULE

Unless you get a discharge and blow of the rudiment as described under “Exception” above, it is essential to find out if any charge found belongs really to the Pre OT himself or to a BT or a Cluster when the charge is found.
Don’t fly all the ruds, for example, and then ask: „Are all these…?” as that would generalize it.
The rule is: ON RUDS, OR ON A PREPARED LIST, OR WHEN FINDING A CHARGE ON A CASE, AT ONCE CHECK IF THAT CHARGE BELONGS TO A BT OR CLUSTER, and if so, find where that BT or Cluster is and limit your attention to that specific area when F/Ning the read. And then take any additional steps to blow that BT or Cluster. And blow it.
These rules for the Solo Auditor on OT III or above apply when putting ruds in at the start session and apply as well to ruds going out during the session. (Ref: HCOB 16 Aug 83, CONFIDENTIAL, SOLO C/S Series No. 7, RUDS GOING OUT ON BTs.) The handling in the later case is the same.

CAUTION

The ruds question: “ Is there a/an…?” can be asked of any case, but the remainder of the data in this HCOB does not apply to cases below OT III and must never be mentioned to such a case.

SUMMARY

Before you begin solo auditing on OT III get this procedure drilled until you can do it smoothly and precisely.
With the principle of misownership and as-is-ness understood and the procedure well drilled, flying ruds at OT III and above is a piece of cake.
Good auditing!


L. RON HUBBARD 
FOUNDER
LRH:sk 

