OT III SOLO
Renata B.
7 April 86
Welcome to OT III !
I saw your letter about the tumors and fear when you felt the somatics. I'm glad you realized your postulate in the matter. That probably keyed it out!
But now that you are on OT III and have studied the material, you realize that:
    1 BTs and Cs can COPY. 
    2 BTs and Cs can "jump" (or be attracted or commanded by a big thetan such as you - especially after OT II !) 
So it is possible, if you still have attention on the area - that these are BTs & Cs dramatizing that "tumor" illness on your body or "copying" it!
If so, it will come up on the level and be handled by you as Solo Auditor.
The first C/S for OT III may take one, or several, sessions. It is to find and handle any BTs and Cs with OUT-RUDIMENTS.
You now know how to do rudiments OT3 Style. That is when you get a read on a question (from a rudiment or list), you check:
A) "Is it mine?"
B) "A BTs?"
C) "A Clusters?"
And to handle "Black Nots" and other interference if you feel it's from outside your own case, you can check:
O) "Is it anothers?"
or "Is this B/C another's?"
The sequence to handle is (if more than one of A, B, C, & O reads):
I. O: 1. the person's charge with you.
2. any BTs or Clusters he or she threw at you.
II. B - a BT on your case
III. C - a Cluster on your case
IV. A - your own charge.
Now when you get a BT on a ruds question (or list) you must handle the BPC of that rud or list item on him. Then do Inc II, Inc I, any Earlier Is & E/Universe, to Blow.
When you get a Cluster on a ruds or list question, it normally is telepathically in comm as a "group" or has a "spokesman". So again you handle the BPC of that rud or list item with it. Then ask for the Mutual Incident. When you get it - or date it - ntoe if it is between Inc II and PT or between Inc I & Inc II or if it is Inc II or the Capture of Inc II. This is important because it tells you what you have to run on the individual BTs from it after it breaks up.
IF THE DATE OF CLUSTER'S M/ INC 
AFTER BREAK YOU RUN 
If between Inc II & PT 
II, I, E/Is, E/U to Blow 
If Inc II 
Capture to Pilot, I, E/Is, E/U to Blow 
If Capture of Inc II 
(Check for Inc II Explosion to Pilot), I, E/Is, E/U to Blow 
If Between Inc I & II 
Inc I, Earlier Is, E/U to Blow 




It's just like Dianetic Chain running. You have to get from where you are on the chain back to the basic for a full "erasure" - or "Blow".
(In OT3 the thetan can "blow" because he has no more mass or BTs stuck to him.)
Points to remember:
    1 You are more powerful than any BT or Cluster. They will do what you command (with good TRs of course). 
    2 Intend them to the dates of II & I when running them (or they may not move on the time track). 
    3 Make sure to run Inc Is as that is the Basic Clustering Incident on Bs & Cs. The "SNAPS" in Inc I are when other beings were stuck to them. Have them spot this when running and you won't have any trouble. 
    4 The beings (BTs) who were stuck to the one you are running thru his Inc I probably have had Inc I earlier also. And the one you are running could have an earlier Inc I. So that is important to check. 
    5 The reason for "Earlier Universe?" button is because even though the BT is "free" after Inc I, he is in a state of failed purpose or effect in the MEST Universe (he was a BT for 4 Quadrillion years). He feels unsafe, disoriented. So the intention of Earlier Universe is to get him to spot an earlier game universe he was in where he could feel safe, or powerful, or himself, or self determined. When he does this he usually blows. 
    6 If not, you can check 
"
"Failed Purpose?"
"
or give him the "Rights of a Thetan" by LRH:
        1 The Right to his Sanity - or Self-Determinism. 
        2 The Right to leave a game - or Power of Choice. 
       He should blow then - or may just need a
"
"new Game?" or "Orientation?"
"
which you can handle by R-factors about what's going on in PT.
    1 If he doesn't blow with VGIs after all this, he has not spotted the remaining BTs stuck to him IN HIS VALENCE. Get him to do this and he will blow. 
The first series of sessions are to get any Out-Ruds Bs & Cs handled: 
#1 - C/S (ANY SESSION)
    1 Fly a rud if no F/N - OT style. 
    2 Do C/S #2, 3, or 4 whichever you are working on. 
#2 C/S
Do 6 Ruds OT Style. (may be several sessions) 
#3 C/S
Locate Pressure areas on body (or pains, somatics, sensations) and run the Bs & Cs causing it. When body feels "clean" take a win, then do C/S #4 (may be several sessions). 
#4 C/S
Locate Bs & Cs in your space as a thetan - around body or far out and run them on OT III. These can be spotted by your attention being drawn to an area or a meter read as you pervade your space. (may be several sessions).
Then take a win when your space feels clean and do C/S #3 again.
So your Program is, for OT III:
    1 Bs & Cs with out ruds. 
    2 Bs & Cs on or in body by pressure area. 
    3 Bs & Cs in your space by attention, pervasion or meter read. 
    4 Repeat 2 
    5 Repeat 3 
    6 Repeat 2 
    7 Repeat 3 
etc -------------------
The reason this works well is that Bs and Cs can be attached to the Body from Genetic Line - or to the Thetan from his own track. If you run just "Body" you lose interest and get a vague "pressure" from outside of head - caused by BTs & Cs wanting auditing. If you just run "Outside Body B/Cs" you will find somatics and pains turning on in the body - caused by Bs & Cs wanting auditing.
So go back and forth as per program, and you will feel more and more "space" and more "yourself".
One note about Inc I - It was done many many times around 4 Quadrillion years ago. The thetan was usually attracted into it by PR (or Force) to "Try out this doll body" and usually you will get a visio of a Doll Body in a Chair - like a dentist's chair - in a special electronically fitted room - or the doll lying down in a shell or cabinet. It was a status symbol to have a doll body in those times. Before Inc I, most thetans were exterior and interested in "Civilization" or "bringing order and aesthetics" to the MEST Universe - and before that were in Earlier Universe games of their own or with others.
Have a good time as a Solo Auditor in freeing beings. Your gains come usually between sessions as new awareness, perceptions, and abilities are regained.
BR
SrC/S Ron's 

