HUBBARD COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE 
Saint Hill Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex
HCO BULLETIN OF 26 AUGUST AD 19R 
REVISED 16 AUGUST 1983 
AOs 
Class VIII Course 
Class VIII C/Ss 
Solo C/Ss 
Solo OT III Course

(This issue has been revised to delete references to the use of Dianetics on OT III, per HCOB 12 Sep 78, DIANETICS FORBIDDEN ON CLEARS AND OTs, and to include on the list of OT III errors Item No. 11 regarding overrun which was formerly given in a bulletin additional to this one, HCOB 26 Aug 69, Issue II, ”Add OT III C/S”.)


SECRET


OT III CASE SUPERVISION


I have lately been Case Supervising a number of temporarily ”failed” OT III cases and have them all running well on Solo now.
The errors made are more or less as follows:
1. 	The Solo auditor cannot audit – has not absorbed his training or at least isn’t putting it into practice. He/she cannot put ruds in or do other elementary auditing actions. The remedy is to get the Solo auditor better trained. This may be a matter of cramming or it may be a matter of the Pre OT retreading his Solo course. If the person then still has trouble on this level, he would need a thorough retread of his Solo auditor course Part Two. The best idea by far is to be at least a Class VI auditor. Those who make fastest progress on III are Class VIIIs, of course.
2. 	The case has not been well prepared due to earlier quickied or incomplete Grades or Rundowns. The case is so overcharged that the Solo auditor cannot ”front up” to auditing at OT III. Out of this you get the pathetic case that declares ”none on OT III” and tries to attest. Or the one who runs five or six, says ”that’s all” and tries to attest. There have been cases that took one look at OT III materials, ”rabbit”(which is to say run away) and ”attest” hurriedly. The remedy for all these is to (a) get ruds well in and use the correction lists appropriate to the Solo level they have done, including an LDN, (b) get the person more training as in 1 above, and (c) get the person through the level standardly, using Review as needed, to an OT III attest.
These two actions take care of the majority of ”difficult” cases on OT III.
These two points have been pretty prevalent, poor auditing and finding none or few on OT III. So much so that I have found few true completion’s on OT III and an awful lot of ”OT VIs” who were really only ”OT II”. All such should be brought in and remedied as per 1 and 2 above. It is a poor thing to have them stumbling around with a false Grade. OT III is NOT a fast Grade.

FURTHER III REMEDIES

The common garden varieties used by a Case Supervisor in day to day OT III session C/Sing – or the troubles an OT II Solo auditor runs into on OT III now and then in sessions follows:
3. 	High TA. This comes from not completing the Incidents II and I on Body Thetans (BTs).
4. 	The Solo auditor puts too WIDE an attention span on the BT and runs two or three when he is intending to run only one.
5. 	A cluster just won’t break up. The remedy is to check for ”Cumulative cluster” or ”Mutual incident of another Date”. With a mutual incident of another date, the type of incident would first be established and the incident then Date/Located per HCOB 15 Nov 78, DATING AND LOCATING. A cumulative cluster would be handled per HCOB 25 Oct 69RA, Rev. 16 Aug 83, SECRET, CLUSTER FORMATION CUMULATIVE, until the cluster was completely blown. When these actions are done in Review and completed, the Solo auditor is sent back to Solo to continue with OT III.
There is another action which may be done in Review when a cluster won’t break up. The Review lists for impacts or incidents that would cause a cluster and handles the item obtained from the list with Date/Locate. When the Review action is complete, the Pre OT goes back to Solo auditing OT III.
6. 	Ruds go out on BTs. This is the usual reason a Solo auditor suddenly feels he doesn’t want to audit or ”needs” a Review. The Solo auditor doesn’t realize, sometimes, he is dealing with living individuals and roughs them up, putting the ruds out on them. The remedy of course is to locate BTs who have out ruds, put the ruds in and run Incident I, at which the BT should leave.
7. 	A ”theta bopping” meter sometimes puzzles a Solo auditor on OT III. This means a BT is trying to exteriorize and can’t. The remedy is to complete the partially run Incident II or Incident I or in extreme cases, put the ruds in on the hung up BT.
8. 	One hand electrode giving a wrong TA read, baffling the Solo auditor with Floating needles with a ”High TA”. The remedy is to have two hand electrodes handy and trim the trim knob so the 1 hand electrode reads the same as the two hand electrodes to check the real TA on occasion.
9. 	A suppressive body thetan sometimes isn’t auditable. The remedy is to run Grade IV, then Inc. II and Inc. I. If this doesn’t do it, get power run on the SP BT. The greatest error is to get upset with one of these, put the ruds out, and make him submerge. In this case, the suppress button is put in or he is prepchecked and then run on Grade IV, Power, Inc. II and Inc. I. These SP BTs are far less common than is supposed. Solo auditors with faults as in paragraphs 1 and 2 above, or who miss other matters blame every fault on SP BTs. They do however exist.
10. 	By far and large the corniest error and which has been very prevalent is not knowing the materials of OT III or the content of Inc II or Inc I. This can get pretty bad. I’ve seen people running Inc II with the date of I! But the funniest error under not knowing the materials is reading wild adventures alleged to be Inc II and Inc 1.
Inc I and Inc II are very precise indeed. The remedy is to send the Solo auditor back to starrate his OT III pack.
11. 	A BT can be overrun. This fact sometimes causes a Solo auditor to believe OT III is overrun. If he asks ”Is OT III overrun?” he may get a read and a blowdown. This is actually just one BT or cluster that is overrun. The way such an overrun can occur is covered in HCOB 4 May 68R, Rev. 16 Aug 83, Issue II, OVERRUN ON III.
The remedy is finding out who was overrun, discovering and indicating the point of overrun and getting the charge off in that way. The BT or cluster may then just depart. If not, one then runs Inc I on the BT (or handles the cluster) to a blow. Then one carries on with OT III.
Running with a discharged meter, with cans not plugged in or with no meter at all – in short any of the errors you find in auditing can also occur in Solo auditing.
However, the faults or troubles 1 to 11 above cover any and all the errors I have found specifically applying to OT III.
This Grade, OT III, is a long and very valuable Grade. IT determines whether or not the Solo auditor will eventually be a real OT.
But the carelessness and casualness with which some Solo auditors often approach OT III and a Solo auditors willingness to run one BT and say ”well the rest don’t bother me”, is simply an indication of weakness or Treason on the 1st Dynamic.
There is no status value to having ”none on III” or in only finding a few or who ”blew them all in Dianetics”. These indicate a Solo auditor who is weak and cannot affect others and who needs the handlings in 1 and 2 above.
OT III is a vital Grade. One fronts up to it and does it. When he is really done, the rewards of OT III exceed his wildest dreams.


L. RON HUBBARD 
FOUNDER
RTCU:LRH:rw:iw 
