Book project 1972
Who is the book aimed at?
This book is aimed at a very small target group: it is not aimed at all Scientologists, but only at those who have already recognized that the Church of Scientology has been taken over by the adversary. The question of whether it has been taken over by the adversary and the proof of this has already been conclusively proven by others before me: There are dozens of well-researched publications1 that are really worth reading for those who still harbor doubts in this regard.
However, what still needs to be done in this regard is the translation of this documentation into other languages, such as German. If someone were to do this work, many Scientologists who have been saved or enlightened would certainly be grateful. I would be willing to publish these translations on our websites if a translator is not willing to do this. If someone does not have the time to do such a translation, then he can finance it so that we can hire someone to do it. A small four-digit amount would certainly be enough.
If you have realized that our movement was split by a third party in 1982, as was published in great detail by Dane Tops in his open letter2, then the question immediately arises: who is this third party and when did the attacks on our church begin? If you have recognized that the tech was gradually changed so that today only a pale imitation of it can be sensed in the church3, then the even more urgent question arises: Since when did these forgeries begin?
This question is not only of historical interest for the eternal seekers of truth, but also of practical importance for three reasons:
    1. If we know the beginning of the forgeries of the LRH materials, then the original tech can be restored. And that would be the application of the KSW points 1 to 10, according to which one must have the correct tech before one can learn and apply it. In fact, the Free Zone is also caught in a very similar trap as the Church of Scientology! They just don't realize it: they are using the tech that was falsified by the takeover team "in freedom" and are therefore trapped. I am aware that many people will see this as a huge devaluation of their previous bridge steps, but I know that in the last 10 years of research work I have been able to identify and work out the correct tech. In fact, this realization revaluates the LRH work, which was devalued by squirrels. Because many Scientologists have noticed that the products of the bridge, the "clears and OTs" that they know and observe, do not correspond to what one can expect. With the rehabilitated LRH tech, the full gains can really be achieved. And that cannot be a devaluation.
       This book is intended to document the results so that Free Scientologists are able to benefit from them and to regain and apply the original LRH tech and thus finally attain the full state of Clear and OT and in this way rehabilitate and win back Scientology as a subject. In this book, I will also present the evidence that the Free Zone is not currently in possession of LRH Tech. Not to devalue or confuse anyone, but to give a correct and stable datum so that the existing confusion can be resolved, LRH standard tech can be reintroduced and everyone can win and expand.
    2. Furthermore, this revelation can have a much more far-reaching effect! LRH wrote an essay on group engrams4, on aberrations of the Third Dynamic. The split of the Scientology movement into the Church on the one hand and the Free Zone on the other is such a massive group engram. And he explained how to resolve such an engram: through communication in the group. By uncovering and exchanging all available facts. As I mentioned above, Freezoners have been sharing their experiences with the Church to a considerable extent over the last quarter of a century5, but without the final phenomenon announced by LRH: the erasure of the group engram, which also includes the nullification of the take-over attempts, a healing of the split, i.e. a reunification of Scientologists, like the fall of the Berlin Wall!
       Similar to the reunification of West and East Germans and the fall of the Berlin Wall twenty years ago, the reunification of Scientologists from the Church and the Free Zone would release a lot of theta: a renaissance of Scientology would happen: a revival and an expansion beyond our wildest hopes.
    3. And as every Scientologist knows, this would not only be a desirable development for us and our Third Dynamic, but it also includes the long-awaited salvation of all mankind. For mankind is trapped in aberrations of the greatest magnitude: we not only live on a prison planet, as Hubbard confided to a small circle of auditors,6 but in this prison the psychiatrists and priests rule and have turned our blue and wonderful planet into a madhouse and a hell. And Ron brought us the tech to Earth so that we would be able to turn this hell into a paradise. Because hell and paradise are not places, but states of consciousness: at least on the first, second, third and fourth dynamic. A marriage can be pure heaven for the spouses, or hell: depending on whether they overcome or dramatize their aberrations. And that is what Scientology tech is all about: learning how to overcome dramatizations and ultimately eradicate them completely: that is how you achieve heaven and paradise on earth.
Well, it has all been tried and obviously failed: because despite many hopeful approaches in the Free Zone and in the Church to achieve the above three points, the true statistics show that things are getting worse: there are still auditors here and there, but they were largely trained up to twenty years ago and today more auditors and oldtimers are dying every year than can be trained.
It is quite obvious: The groupgram is not yet resolved: The Scientologists are still divided and are splitting more and more. The Third Party is dancing the polka and celebrating a wedding. What to do? - What every trained auditor would do: we are looking for the earlier beginning or the earlier-similar event. And that is what this book is about: because this earlier beginning of the takeover attempt has not yet been dragged into the light of day. Once this has been achieved, we will also reap the promised benefits for the three dynamics mentioned above: the real clearing of the individual, of the Scientologists as a group and of the planet: Ron's goal.
Of course, this requires not only the publication of this book, but also the distribution of this book: writing it was my task and responsibility, reading it, understanding it and distributing it is the responsibility of every reader to recognize that the truth has been written here. If this book is passed on among Scientologists to a sufficient extent, then we will be able to experience the clearing of ourselves, our group and planet Earth: I guarantee it, dear reader.
In the TV series Heroes7, it was said: "Save the cheerleader and save the world!"8. The big projects, such as saving an entire planet, consist of small individual steps and tasks. Others before me felt called upon to document the fact of the takeover of the Church of Scientology. I was able to build on this and rehabilitate the tech, because I was able to recognize when the takeover began based on these documents. We have been able to apply the corrected tech as field auditors "Free Scientologists" with great success over the last 10 years. Now I am publishing my research so that others can benefit from it as well. If you, the reader, pass this book on and recommend it, then we will succeed. It is these small, inconspicuous but feasible activities that accomplish the great work: the individual auditing session, the Dianetics book sold, the new student on the auditor course, the spread of information about the Third Party, the passing on of this book that you are holding in your hands!

The 9-11 of Scientology
"You can lie to all the people some of the time.
Some people can be fooled all the time.
But you can't fool all the people all the time."
Abraham Lincoln, 16th President of the USA (1809 - 1865)
First of all, I would like to remind you that the rule of a few9 over this planet is exercised only secondarily through government power, weapons and money. The actual exercise of power has been taking place for millennia through mind control. By this I do not mean only brainwashing like MK-Ultra or the HAARP project, but mass influence, propaganda that deceives people into believing in a "reality" that is far removed from reality.
So here too, the principle applies that theta (like mind control) is above MEST (like money and weapons).
This propaganda machine did not only exist since Hitler and Göbbels and the modern mass media like newspapers, radio and TV, as the field of PR (originally called propaganda, but was redefined to harmless "public relations") wants to indoctrinate us. Rather, PR has existed since ancient times: at that time, it was laboriously preached from the pulpit. It was the priests who took on the task of influencing the masses in the interest of the oligarchy10. That is why Ron also writes about the "Psychs & Priests" who are our opponents. They are the two specialists in mind control: psychiatrists and the priesthood.
Not every priest has to be a suppressor "from the heart"; it is enough if he believes in the Bible, which has been falsified a thousand times and adapted to the interests of the oligarchy11. According to these documents, the Bible was turned into the opposite: instead of God's word to the people, the people are alienated from God and made stupid by means of the Bible. Every priest, no matter how good-hearted and well-intentioned, becomes a propaganda tool of the oligarchy, which has orchestrated these forgeries through its high priests. Anyone who saw through the plot was slandered, persecuted and executed in the Middle Ages: heretics. All so that the oligarchic rule of a few over the majority could remain justified as "pleasing to God".
Even though many people today fear that a New World Order, a world government, could be established if we are not careful, the fact is that this world government has existed for thousands of years and continues to exist today! The oligarchy had fought among themselves for world domination in the known world. The emperor ruled over his empire. Do not believe that this rule has ever really been broken! It has only changed its appearance and adapted to the modern age. After the Enlightenment, a new religion was established: the belief in science, which of course also came under the complete control of the oligarchy. With so-called school science, realities are created and cemented that are far from the truth.
But given the successful use of mind control by the mass media, the world oligarchy remains largely spared from these realizations in the population.
Interestingly, it can generally be assumed that Scientologists see through such generally unconfrontable crimes as the blowing up of the Twin Towers on 9/11. While it took many years of educational work to convince the general public that 9/11 was a "home-made"12 event, most Scientologists realized this within a week. Auditing old implants (the origin and the basis of all mind control) therefore helps immensely to free oneself from the propaganda machine and to think clearly (clear). This is not least the reason why the oligarchy has to fight Scientology: because with the spread of auditing, their ability to sell the masses for stupid is dwindling.
These serious crimes as a propaganda tool to justify wars or the seizure of power are also an old hat: Nero had Rome burn to the ground to celebrate a pogrom against the Christians. Hitler had the Reichstag burnt down as a pretext for his Enabling Act. Why did these oppressors usually get away with it in their time? Because a malice of this magnitude is almost impossible for the target group, the population, to emotionally digest. No matter what one's opinion of Emperor Nero may have been, imagining that he himself ordered Rome to be set on fire is asking a little too much of a good citizen.
The murders of JFK, Lady Diana and other beloved personalities13 are also difficult to confront and emotionally process. Yet the murder of Jesus and many other great figures in world history shows that the oligarchy does not shy away from it when it comes to maintaining its power.
What does this have to do with us?
In the case of Scientology, a show was also successfully put on to take over power, so that even all well-meaning eyewitnesses of the time could swear that "reality" was like that, although the truth was covered up.
The entertainment magicians David Copperfield or the Great Houdini14 obviously play with their ability to sell illusions. Every spectator is amazed when Copperfield makes a massive locomotive disappear on stage in front of everyone's eyes. Behind this is a technology that first has to be mastered and then brings the illusionist a high income. The same technology, although often not mastered as perfectly, is used by the magicians of public relations, who are not so honest as to openly admit that their media publications are often just stage magic. For they work on behalf of the oligarchy and are supposed to conceal its strategies. And just as the high priests used to cloud the rational thinking of churchgoers with incense, so TV consumption is all the more effective the more alcohol is enjoyed on the sofa.
Ron repeatedly warned against the takeover attempts
Ron foresaw as early as 1952 that the Church would one day be taken over and wrote the following parable. It is printed in the red Technical Volume 1 and translated into German in the new Handbook of Ceremonies15 (from page 505). The quoted postscript below (but without my emphasis) also comes from this book:
The Man and the Golden Sphere
(L. Ron Hubbard, 1952)
Once upon a time there was a man, or perhaps he was not a man, who slept for a very long time.
When he lay down to rest, the world was not too terrible. People were happy and their activities were productive, and flowers grew on the green hills.
But when he woke up, things had changed. He stood in front of his cave and looked at the world. Yes, somehow it had changed. The hills were ugly and brown. Two women were arguing nearby. In the distance, red clouds were rising, and when he looked closer, he saw that it was a battle. And so he went down through the fields and cities to find out what had happened.
The people stared at him darkly. The children did not play. There was little food, and the haggard faces of everyone showed that everyone was staggering under the heavy burden of sorrow. And the man, or perhaps he was not a man, saw that the world had fallen on difficult times.
He wandered around and understood that he was facing a black magic here that had been imposed heavily on the souls of the people. Maybe some sorcerers had done this to the human, maybe the humans had done it to themselves. But it didn't matter. The world had gone mad. Someone had to do something.
The man thought for many days. And then he created a golden ball and filled it with everything necessary to undo a black spell. It was a very pretty ball, which was at the end of an ivory stick. And it was very easy to use, because all you had to do was hold it over the head of a human being and wish them well, so that the slavery that held that being captive would be broken.
And the man went on and held it over the heads of dozens of people, not telling them what it was, and the people suddenly smiled and became cheerful, and the slavery was broken for them. And the man saw that this was good, and so he showed many people how to use the golden ball, and told them all that this was necessary to completely break the black magic in the whole world.
And some used it. But others said, "Isn't it pretty?" and started playing catch with it. And some said, "It's not real gold." And some wanted to hide it for fear it would be stolen. And some said, "It's GOLD!" and bought knives and guns and fought with it. And some cunningly said, "With this POWER I can rule the earth." And still others just ran around saying that it was not a real ball and that the man had stolen it from others, and they clung to their black magic that was around them, whispering that the man had originally created it and that he had planned to kill them all.
But the man paid little attention. He tried to set up companies to make the golden ball available to many. But the people in the companies said, "It's mine!", "It's power!", "It's gold!" and, "The man will kill us all!", and so they fought among themselves and threw dust over the golden ball and tried to dent it.
And finally the man sat down in an abandoned place and told everyone that anyone who wanted to use the ball could use it. And they sent officers and thieves and lawyers to him to tell him that no one could use the ball.
And they took the man's company director and said that they would imprison him because he claimed that the golden ball belonged to everyone. And they got the government to put guards around him in case anyone sent him money to help send the golden ball to everyone.
And the man looked at all these people and none of those who hated the golden ball had ever used it in any way, but only thrown dust on it and tried to dent it, and he looked at all the devious people who walked up and down the "It's not real gold!" "The man actually stole it!" And then he looked, and beyond that he saw the haggard faces, the crippled children, the wailing women. And above all that, he saw the red swaths of battle.
And the battle clouds grew larger. And they grew larger and larger, as if they were hanging in fiery clouds over an entire world.
And the man who sat in the deserted place looked at the golden ball.
Today we have the golden ball. L. Ron Hubbard has entrusted it to us and it belongs to us to use. It is the technology that L. Ron Hubbard developed for us. To learn more about it and what exactly you have to do to make use of it, you should read the book What is Scientology? Every step is carefully explained and presented in the correct order. All your questions will be answered. (writes the CoS) - end of book quote.

Then the warning in DMSMH about possible control over Dianetics:
(insert)
And then this
"It must be kept in mind and it must be forcefully stated that Scientology does not work in the absence of official control. No matter who has tried to use the principles of Scientology, such endeavors in the hands of non-Scientologists and  organizations not controlled by the central organizations of Scientology or myself have invariably failed.
The reason for this statement is the continuing disasters that the United States government has brought upon its "allies" and the efforts of that government since 1955, and increased since 1963, to co-opt Scientology in the United States rather than to ban or stop it."
HCO PL 10 Jan. 1968 Freedom from Politics.



A brief history of Scientology
As mentioned at the beginning, the purpose of this paper is not to convince the reader that a takeover of Scientology has taken place. Others have already done that. The target group of this chronology are those Scientologists who already know that. The purpose is rather to determine the exact point in time from which L. Ron Hubbard was no longer able to exercise control over the publication line and from which one must therefore check the references to inconsistencies with previously formulated basics with increased vigilance and, if necessary, identify them as forgeries.

Unlike earlier authors, I do not assume that this point in time coincides with the presumed date of L. Ron Hubbard's death or with the split of Scientology in 1982. This point in time is much earlier: when an international arrest warrant led to the arrest of LRH and since then his commlines to Scientologists have been lost.

The following chronology shows that the LRH materials were increasingly altered from 1973 onwards, and that Ron himself had no control over his publication line.

It is the task of every trained auditor and case supervisor to separate the wheat (LRH tech) from the chaff (counterfeiting), so that the first point of KSW can be attained, on which the whole bridge is built: "Having the correct technology".

"The Price of Freedom - Constant Vigilance and Constant Readiness to Strike Back. There is no other price."
(LRH in AHMC-1, 6012C31)


1950
With the Dianetics book, LRH launches a worldwide movement that is seen as a dangerous opponent by the psychiatric secret services (see mind control, MK-Ultra, mass psychology, etc.).
1951
The FBI was watching LRH and his organizations.16 It must therefore be assumed that agents were infiltrated into the management of the young organizations at a very early stage.
1952
The oil millionaire Don Purcell was in charge of the management of the HDRF (Hubbard Dianetics Research Foundation), allowed the org to go bankrupt and then bought the rights privately, refusing to give them to LRH. A hostile takeover that was initially successful, which prohibited LRH from continuing to advertise, research or teach under the term Dianetics. LRH handled this suppression by creating the new term "Scientology". This also explains why Dianetics was no longer part of an auditor's standard repertoire as early as 1952.
1955
After a long legal battle, Ron regained the rights to Dianetics and wrote the book "Dianetics 55!" to celebrate - which, in contrast to the current differentiation between the terms Dianetics and Scientology, is not a Dianetics book at all, but a Scientology book: it is about the Comm cycle and the objective processes.
15.11.58
LRH transfers all his copyrights to HASI so as not to be in the situation again that his copyrights are stolen. HASI was separated from the business of the orgs (so it could not be harmed if an org went bankrupt) and its copyrights were no longer attached to his life or went uncontrollably to any heirs, because Ron knew: wills can be forged.
1961-1966
With the SHSBC, Ron created the first auditor training program that he was truly satisfied with. The gradient scale of the bridge with the grades 0 to 7 was developed, both for the training of auditors and for the auditing progress of the PCs. By the end of the 1960s, the Clearing Course, the OT levels and the reintroduction of Standard Dianetics as a bridge step below the levels had been developed. And he brought St. Hill to an exemplary size through an extensive management tech (HCO PLs).
End of the 1960s
In England, Ron (and many other Scientologists from around the world) were refused residence permits for political reasons and so he had to leave the International Headquarters St. Hill. As a result, agents were able to take over St. Hill to such an extent that production collapsed worldwide. We know this from reports by Captain Bill about the re-issue of KSW No. 1, which dealt with the Quicky Grades that had been introduced, among other things.
Since 1968
Ron went with elite Scientologists on three ships and founded the Sea Org, which had the task of bringing ethics to  Planet Earth so that Scientology Tech could be brought back in. This was Ron's answer to the international attacks on the orgs. The ships cruised the Mediterranean and went ashore in Greece, Morocco and Portugal, and also sailed to the Canary Islands.
1971
The IRS audits the tax records of the Church of Scientology in California and questions its tax exemption. The legal head of the IRS from 1970 to the end of the 1970s was a law professor named Mead Emory, who later founded CST17!
June 1972
Operation Ramrod: The CIA Remote Viewing Program proves scientifically and exactly, with the support of the two Scientologists Dr. Puthoff18 and Ingo Swan19, the real existence of the OT abilities. The US secret services want to gain control over this technology and prevent others from achieving the OT levels. The conclusion of this operation (with the elimination of the Clearing Course and the OT levels IV to VII and the eventual takeover of the Church) is celebrated in 1993: The war is over!
13. 11. 72
The last lecture by LRH available to the public: "Diseases, Breakthrough" as part of expanded Dianetics.
3. Dec 72
LRH and the Sea Org have gone ashore in Morocco to deliver services there.
France issues an international arrest warrant for LRH on charges of alleged fraud. This is carried by Interpol to all countries. Morocco also has to bow to it. However, LRH is warned in time and can leave the country.
Hubbard did not take the ferry to Lisbon with the rest of the crew; he was taken from Villa Laura to the airport, where he took a direct flight to Lisbon. There he was met by Sea Org personnel, who escorted him through the airport to a waiting car. From there they drove towards the city and headed for the Sheraton Hotel. There, the Commodore sat in his suite for several hours, worried, while lawyers in Paris, Lisbon and New York tried to assess the risk of extradition to France and the subsequent fraud charges. Normally, he would have avoided such legal entanglements by simply continuing to sail with his ship, but the Apollo was in dry dock and therefore offered him no protection.
With Hubbard at the hotel were Ken Urquhart, Jim Dincalci and Paul Preston, a former Green Beret who had recently been appointed the commodore's bodyguard. Urquhart said that Hubbard was 'pretty relaxed' and gave them a brief briefing on the need to establish 'safe places'.20  Dincalci contradicted this account: "He was very nervous and afraid of what might happen. I could see that he was very tense. After two or three hours, a call came from the captain. When he hung up the phone, he said, 'This is really serious now. I have to leave immediately'.21
Urquart was sent to book seats on the next available flight to the United States and to get money. It was agreed that Preston would travel with Hubbard, while Dincalci would accompany them as a 'shadow', so that he could inform the ship's crew immediately in the event of any problems. The loyal Urquhart returned with three Lisbon-Chicago tickets; the flight was to leave early the next morning. The tickets were booked through to Chicago, but the plane made a stopover in New York. Urquhart suggested that they should leave the plane there if a 'welcome committee' was waiting for them at O'Hara Airport in Chicago. He also had a briefcase full of cash in various currencies - escudos, marks, francs, pounds, dollars and Moroccan dirhams, all in all about $100,000; that was all he had been able to get out, as he told Ron.22
4 Dec 72
LRH flies to NY and is arrested at the airport by customs. This is probably what LRH intended according to good legal advice. In the USA, the detention review is carried out at short notice by a US judge on the basis of American law with regard to the international arrest warrant. LRH can defend himself in his native language.
The procedure is as follows: on the basis of the international arrest warrant, the FBI can hold him for at least 24 hours to present him to the detention judge. The French are now requested to specify the charges and to present any evidence for the detention review. If the US judge does not consider the evidence to be sufficient for a charge, LRH will be released and the international arrest warrant will be lifted, because no country can now dare to arrest an American who has already been released for this charge. So LRH has made a consistent move: with a minimum of effort, he has pulled his head out of the legal noose that France had set.
In Bare-Faced Messia23, it reads as follows:
The flight departed early the next morning with only a short delay; Dincalci was sitting a few rows behind Hubbard and Preston. At J.F. Kennedy Airport in New York, Dincalci was standing behind them in the customs line and heard with horror how the customs officer asked Hubbard to open his briefcase. After he had taken a look inside, he promptly asked Hubbard to come to an interrogation room.
"As they led him away, I thought to myself, 'Oh God, that's it; now the whole world will know that L. Ron Hubbard is back in the United States,'" said Dincalci.
04.12.71
However, according to the testimony of LRH's two companions, the completely unbelievable happened: LRH was released again within 15 minutes at customs!!! Without a detention review (which would have taken place in the courtroom) and without documents from France (which would have taken some time to reach the detention judge). But was it really LRH who was able to leave the customs building unscathed? Ron looked "like a zombie" after the 15 minutes!!!
Here is the text in Bare-Faced Messia:
"He came out after about 15 minutes and looked like a zombie. He had to give them a lot of information about the money. We got in a cab outside and I asked, 'Where are we going?' He said, 'I can't think.' He was literally in shock. We went to Manhattan and he pointed to a hotel, it was Howard Johnson's or something like that, and said, 'We'll stay here.'"
The three checked in under false names: Hubbard was Lawrence Harris, Preston was Don Shannon and Dincalci was Frank Morris. Dincalci went across the street to a deli and bought some food for them. Back at the hotel, he asked the commodore if he should go back to the ship, but Hubbard seemed not to understand the question. The next day he sent Dincalci out to buy them new clothes and look for a place to stay. The question of whether Dincalci should return to the ship was never raised again.
... For the first few weeks, Hubbard did nothing but watch television all day long, switching from channel to channel and watching everything - from soap operas to rock music shows.24
The rest of this report describes an "LRH" who appears to be a psychotic. He is sick, whines around and is not interested in Scientology. - In my opinion, there is only one explanation for these strange data:
At customs, LRH was replaced by a lookalike!
A lookalike is nothing unusual, I have recognized some lookalikes of some acquaintances myself. With well-known personalities, their lookalikes quickly become known.
On the following page, a few examples of this.

No matter how much they smile, the lookalikes always look like a zombie version of the original: because a person has a certain charisma and you can't imitate that. The body may look similar to the original, but somehow it's still "lifeless".

And here we have LRH and the "would-be LRH" from 1974, who played music with the Apollo stars.
1973
This psychotic "LRH2" remains hidden in New York for 10 months. There is no communication. Nobody knows whether he is still alive or whether he will come back again. - Very unusual for a man who has put on the star boots and taken full responsibility for planet Earth by developing a technology and movement that has the power to save humanity from the clutches of the psychs.
And at the end of the 10 months, nothing changes legally. The international arrest warrant remains unprocessed and yet no legal action is taken against LRH2. Unusual!
10 months until September 1073
The management decides to keep LRH's disappearance secret and to pretend that he is still there, and even produces some HCOBs by reissuing PABs and BTBs, among other things! The masses of Scientologists do not notice LRH's absence at all.
1973
With Ron gone, the volume of pages published under his name drops from an average of 270 per year25 to  86 – i.e. to about a third.
Counts for the 1970s:
1971: 245 HCOBs & HCOPLs – including only 9 revisions of older issues!
1972: 181 – of which only 12 are revisions of older issues26
1973: 86
1974: 191 – of which ¾ are revisions of older issues27!!!
1975: 96
1976: 82
1977: 72.
It must also be taken into account that the majority (if not all) of the issues since 1973 have been written by Staff and also include revisions of older issues.
20.4.73
The Snow White program is published under LRH's name with GO 732 WW LEGAL, which later leads to the destruction of the GO. This falls into the 10 months where LRH had no commline to the church! So this must be a forgery.
In this GO program, it is demanded that all government files on Scientology be obtained in order to refute the lies in them. Later, the GO urges that this LRH order be fulfilled, if necessary by any means!
1973
Flag Order 3434 is issued, creating the RPF. It is not written by L. Ron Hubbard (how could it be, since he is gone), but claims that the RPF is from Ron. The following issues on the RPF are also not from Ron. This created the Sea Org's prison camp.
10. 8. 73
HCOB PTS Handling, probably also a fake. It virtually eliminates Dianetics as a handling for illnesses by claiming that all illnesses come from PTSness. The PTS handling described is out-tech.28
Sept. 73
"LRH" suddenly reappears and says he has done "sociological studies in NY". Either he served 10 months in prison (perhaps for illegally importing foreign currency into the USA, because his butler had packed 5-digit sums of cash in various currencies into his suitcase) or he was recovering from a serious illness. Two people were with him during this time: a former Green Beret Jim Denkelsey as a bodyguard and Paul Preston, a male nurse.
Dec. 73
"LRH" breaks his arm in Tenerife. It takes 3 months to heal. The Sea Org is now traveling the eastern Atlantic and the Caribbean. There is a lot of suppression from the CIA and other American authorities, who are so involved in third parties that the Sea Org cannot find a safe haven.
About 1973
Jim Dincalci Debrief 2 January 1975
9. 2. 74
The lower conditions are supplemented in a HCOPL "Condition below Treason, Confusion Formula and exp. Confusion Formula" at a time when LRH is recovering. This confusion condition is the necessary entry point for assigning a lower condition to well-meaning Scientologists. Because everyone can be confused at times, so it can be assumed. Interestingly, this formula is not printed in the Ethics book of May 1974 or in the OEC 0 or 1 of 1980. It only appears later and was probably backdated to 1974 or perhaps no one made a fuss about it at the time so that highly trained Scientologists would not find out about it and want to correspond with LRH about this forgery.
July 75
"LRH" has a stroke, is in intensive care for 2 days, in the clinic for 3 weeks and recovers from it for 3 months in Curacao. Takes a lot of photos there.
Oct. 75
The SO goes ashore: 3 groups: NY, Miami & Washington D.C. The Fort Harrison Hotel is bought. "LRH" allegedly gives lectures to the C/Ses in Flag. Audio recordings of these are not available, we just have to believe it.
Nov 75
"LRH" gives 22 lectures to Flag auditors, his last recorded technical lectures of his life: "New Vitality Rundown". Audio recordings of these are not available, we just have to believe it.
1976
In fulfillment of the Snow White program, the GO accepts an offer from a "public" Michael Meisner, who wanted to copy the Scientology files in the tax office on his own and illegally. Over the course of weeks, 100,000 pages are collected, stored and evaluated in the offices of the GO. This leads to the FBI raid on July 7, 1977. This "public" was probably an agent provocateur of the IRS, because only the GO people – but not him – were convicted and imprisoned for his actions.
16.9.76
With LRH ED 284 Int, the prices of the CoS begin to rise by 5 to 10% per month to adjust them to inflation. This may have made sense at first, but these price increases were not stopped until 4 years later, when even high earners could no longer afford the bridge. A tenfold increase in prices. Where was LRH during these 4 years? Obviously no longer in a position to control the prices of the CoS.
28. 10. 76
LRH's designated successor, Class XII Quentin Hubbard (LRH's son) is found dead in his car in Las Vegas. Alleged suicide by car exhaust fumes, but there are also strange needle marks on his arm!
Dec. 76
"LRH" lecture Ron's Journal 2829, not for sale? Unclear on which day.
Early 1977
From now on, "LRH" is on the run for security reasons30 and hides in places under false names and with very little contact with other staffs. First six months in Washington D.C.
Jan 1977
The lawyer Sherman Lenske can claim without contradiction that he was commissioned by LRH to represent his business interests. He and his brother Stephen have known connections to the Mead Emory of the IRS and are the creators of CST and later also the "Special Directors of CST". Is it possible that LRH does not know anything about this mandate?! LRH has lost control of his most important concerns through his escape.
24. 1. 77
HCOB Tech Correction Roundup: here "LRH" says that he was able to find a lot of fakes of HCOBs from the last 3 or 4 years and that he wants to correct them. So since the time when he disappeared for 10 months. This means that there has been infiltration and manipulation on the highest technical and release lines since 1973!32
With this shocking information, a fundamental guideline is abandoned: up to now, Ron has insisted that only those references were signed with his name that he had written himself. Others were also allowed to publish BTBs or BPLs under their own names. Now "Ron allowed" an RTRC to write references in his name. This opens up the possibility of writing extensive forgeries of the tech and the guidelines without the people who know about it being concerned about it.
1. 5. 77
The member organization HASI loses its existence because the GO failed to convene the annual general meeting. After an unsuccessful reminder, the court officially deleted HASI from the register of associations! This meant that the LRH copyrights came back into the possession of LRH by a roundabout route. According to the later will, they were then bequeathed to CST. Without the dissolution of HASI, the LRH will would be meaningless for the control of Scientology!
7. 7. 77
The FBI makes its raid on the GO in LA and D.C. for the stolen IRS documents — LRH and MSH discuss the solution33. The GO never recovered from this, because all the files were seized and the leadership was indicted and later convicted. Four years later, the GO was dissolved by David Miscavige's tricks and lies. LRH was also to be charged as the mastermind (Snow White Program), but successfully avoided this (?) by hiding.
July 77
"LRH" hides in LaQuinta, CA near Palm Springs.
15. 7. 77- 31. 12. 77
"LRH" leaves LaQuinta with Pat Broeker, DeDe Reisdorf and Clare Rousseau, lives in Sparks, Nevada in Reno and is out-of-comm with the church for 6 months. "LRH" is allegedly seriously ill.
2. 1. 78
"LRH" is living in LaQuinta again, Rifle Hacienda, and is allegedly directing the tech films, but is not seen by anyone there. Stage directions only by dispatch.
1978
In this year alone, 330 pages of new HCOBs and PLs are written and published under the direction of David Mayo. These include NED and the news that one can go Clear on NED. The DCSI (CCRD precursor) is developed to establish Dianetics Clears. This puts the Clearing Course in the background. This "editorial work", which is in complete contradiction to LRH (HCOBs are "technical bulletins that were only written by LRH." HCO PL 24. 9. 70), is accompanied by fierce power struggles, including some SP declares, among the technical elite involved.34

Sept. 78
"LRH" has another stroke or heart attack and he was helped by his personal physician Dr. Gene Denk (who also certified his death in 1986 and allegedly had provided him with medical care as late as January 1986: with the psychotropic drug Vistaril!) and David Mayo assisted as an auditor. LRH's death was expected at any moment. Ron could hardly speak, Mayo said. These assists later became NOTs. — David Mayo is promoted as a top tech terminal in the church because he is Ron's personal auditor.
Oct 78
The Gilman Hot Springs is bought as a summer "headquarters" for Ron. 20 miles from Palm Springs, CA.
March 79
"LRH" has to flee from LaQuinta because a blown staff allegedly threatened to call the police.
April 79
"LRH" lives in Lake Elsinore for a month.
Mid-79
"LRH" lives in Hemet (now the headquarters of "Golden Era Productions") near Gilman Hot Springs, which was bought last Oct. This further isolates him. "LRH" got a cancer on his forehead, which was surgically removed. Mayo gave him assists. Mayo was appointed as "Ron's personal auditor" Senior C/S Int, a newly created position that introduced a highest post authority in the church and led an international tech hierarchy, which was previously unnecessary in the network of autonomous orgs and contradicts self-determined correction through cramming tech.
1979
Mary Sue Hubbard and the following 10 GO-Execs ended up in prison: Henning Heldt, Duke Snider, Gregory Willardson, Richard Weigand, Cindy Raymond, Mitchell Hermann, Gerald Bennett Wolfe, Sharon Thomas, Jane Kember, Morris "Mo" Budlong
1.9.79
Fundamental change in international management structures in favor of today's rulers: The former messenger boys of LRH were turned into a "Commodores Messengers Org" and a Watch Dog Committee was set up over the International Management. However, there is still no LRH reference to confirm this. Not even as a forgery. This degrades the Int Management without touching the people there for the time being. Ingenious move.
Later, at the Mission Holder Meeting in 1982, this arbitrary measure was criticized when the WDC and CMO finally stripped ED Int Bill Franks of all his powers.
December 15, 1979
Lawyers Sherman Lenske and Norton S. Karno write LRH's will, which is corrected again a week before his official date of death. The main content: the transfer of control over Scientology to CST/Mead Emory by means of the copyrights.
Feb. 80
"LRH" & Mayo are in constant communication regarding the development of Solo-NOTs by Mayo. Mayo refers to Ron's approval of his work. The RTC does not contradict this later in court!
"LRH" broke up with Pat and Annie Broekers and allegedly lived in Creston, CA, with RTC, until "Ron's end of life" in 1986, among other things in a caravan.
1980
Ron writes to his children and to CMO that he has only about 5 years to live and that they should take all necessary measures to prepare for his death.
July 1981
The GO is dissolved. MSH is removed. By means of a forged order from LRH, which Miscavige transmitted35.
1981
Ron allegedly demands US$ 85 million from the church and offers RTC his copyrights in return. The founding of RTC is sold to the church as a solution to Ron's tax problem, so that he does not have to pay taxes on the 85 million (which is, however, a false date). The church management believes all of this, raises the money with a great deal of effort and leaves it to David Miscavige, who allegedly hands it over to Pat Broeker.
19. 11. 81
The Church of Scientology Int is founded as the mother church. So is OSA.
1. 1. 82
RTC is founded. Further contracts in which LRH allegedly transfers the rights to CST and RTC, although CST has not yet been founded.
1982
Miscavige leaves the CMO and runs the All Clear Committee to handle Ron's legal sit, for which he is on the run. He botches this job and thus becomes the most powerful man in the Church of Scientology. Miscavige eventually leaves the SO to control it from above the SO.
1982ff
RTC licenses the churches, the missions and the field auditors, thus squeezing many more millions out of Scientology at the expense of the survival of these groups, which flow into dark channels. In this way, the Sea Org reserves are also taken over and, under the pretext of high mortgages, the church properties are also burdened. In the course of this, thousands of protesting Scientologists are declared SP or voluntarily leave the church. Among them were almost the entire Int Management and most of the highly trained Class XII auditors. More and more people are asking themselves where LRH is.
Now the whole of Scientology is being restructured and reorganized: CST, RTC, ASI, Gold, SMI, WISE, I Help, Able, OSA, CSI are created. The former similar organizations have been or are being dissolved.
1983
The "cast-off son"36 from his first marriage, Ronald DeWolf, sues the church, claiming that his father is already dead. The church proves in court, without LRH appearing, "that LRH is still alive and does not want to and does not have to appear". With the support of the tax office (!), this circumstantial evidence is presented in court that LRH is still alive. In this way, DeWolf loses the lawsuit, which may have been staged for this very reason, and RTC/CST win. Any church member who still asks about LRH is silenced by being told that he is taking the side of the enemies. At that time, the tax office was waging a war against the Church of Scientology. And the church leadership is relying on the tax office to prove that Ron is still alive? Why don't they just show us and the court a video? Instead, they work with fingerprints and "forgery-proof ink".

David Mayo is also declared as Snr C/S Int and leaves the church. In the USA, he organizes the freelance field auditors and missions that had separated from the church in so-called AACs. Due to legal disputes with the church, he ultimately gives up – probably more through a well-honored settlement than through a legal defeat. Since then, the field of independent Scientologists in the USA has been very desolate and disorganized.

Capt. Bill Robertson, as Ron's former right-hand man, organizes the independent Scientologists in Europe into Ron's Orgs and offers them OT levels up to 42. At the annual convention of the Ron's Orgs, about 100 people still came together from 2001 to 2003, with a decreasing tendency. In the Freezone, there is a dogma that the LRH references after 1982 may be considered as falsified, because the takeover of the church took place in 1982. The changes before 1982 are usually blindly trusted.
Jan 1984
In Advance there is a new bridge: There the OT levels IV to VII are "replaced" by "New OT IV to VII". In fact, the old OT levels have simply been dropped, because "New OT IV to VII" is nothing more than audited NOTs and Solo-NOTs, which had been developed by David Mayo since 1979 and also applied in addition to the OT levels. This means that the OT levels from IV on were simply canceled without replacement. Exactly according to the above-mentioned Operation Ramrod (see the entry under June 1972). Clear is now allegedly routinely achieved on NED, the clearing course (including Power and R6EW) disappears into a so-called alternative route.
Jan 1986
Ron's death is announced under mysterious circumstances: The body is identified with the help of fingerprints and the police files, and then quickly cremated before the relatives arrive. The coroner has to destroy his photos of the body and found Vistaril, a psychotropic drug, in the blood, which the alleged personal physician Dr. Denk stated that he had administered to his patient a week earlier. Ron died of a stroke the week before his death, but had still changed his will afterwards, demanding, among other things, that no autopsy be performed because of Scientology's religious beliefs (!?).
1993
Miscavige obtains tax exemption for CST and the Church of Scientology, which is controlled by CST, and celebrates this with 20,000 Scientologists: "The war is over!"

