

Lawrence Wollersheim and Jesse Prince

L:	Testing 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10. Today is the 16th of August, 1998. This is Lawrence Wollersheim about 5:00 in the afternoon sitting with Jesse Prince. We’re just going to talk about his time in Scientology and ask him different things. And this is my voice, the other voice will be Jesse’s. 
J: 	The voice he’s referring to is this one right here. 
L: 	OK. Tell me, the other day we were talking about Scientology tampering with judges.  You mentioned that you had been interviewed by the FBI once before and that they had asked you about it but you didn’t tell them what was going on.  Were you in Scientology?
J:	Yes I was.  I told them the truth as I understood it at that time.
L:	You told them what you knew at that time, the truth as you understood it at that time.  It was concerning a tampering with a judge.  What was that judge’s name?
J:	Judge Mary Anna Fouser.  
L:	This was in a case?
J:	A RICO suit brought against David Mayo, the AAC.  CSC and RTC brought the action.
L:	What specifically did Scientology do to tamper with this judge, and if you can just try to describe what your knowledge is, and who was involved in doing it and if you know what they specifically did, or you don’t know what they did.  Kind of, a person, an action, as much detail as you can have.
J:	What I would like to do is just start at the beginning.  Any time a judge appears in a case in Scientology, good, bad, or indifferent, a common practice is to do an ODC, particularly if he’s a hostile judge, or is perceived to be a hostile judge.  ODC means overt data collection.  What would happen is, you’d get some guys normally from OSA Invest, and they would go and get as much public record as they could about that particular judge.
L:	Could you state what OSA Invest is?
J:	Office of Special Affairs Investigation Unit.  It’s kind of like a low scale FBI investiguous way, or in a harsh way, to create intimidation.  That’s a common practice, they do it with every judge.  With Mary Anna Fouser, when we got on this case, an ODC was done on her.  They kind of looked up her records as a judge, looked up her cases, found out where she lives, everything that they possibly could.  Through lawyers and investigators, found as much personal information as they could about the judge, what she likes, what she doesn’t like, this kind of thing.  Before any case is started, you have the profile of the judge, you have a profile of a prosecutor, if it is a prosecutor, or a profile of the opposing litigating attorneys.  In my particular case, I was involved as a witness in the AAC case, I came on as a witness, as a director of the Religious Technology Center, and a person that had high credentials in their technological business.  We were in the case and what I was doing in the case was comparing the “NED for OTs” [stands for “New Era Dianetics for Operating Thetans”] materials to the “NED for OTs” materials that David Mayo himself had issues.  Now, I’m just going to speak as I as thinking at the time.  Of course, I have other ideas about that now.  I took and compared the “NED for OTs” issue #1 and David Mayo’s the “NED for OTs” issue #1, which were so amazingly similar to what the church had and he produced.  Of course, subsequently, that wouldn’t be a surprise because Mayo wrote it anyway.  At the time I was being a little church person, Mayo wrote 98% of it based on random crazy notes.  At that point, when I was on the stand, and I brought up, I had it in my jacket pocket, and I pulled out these papers, and there was an immediate objection from the other attorneys, I forget their names.  The judge had us meet back in chambers.  The opposition attorneys and our attorneys went back in the chn was that they hadn’t had a chance to review that evidence.  What actually happened in evidence in chambers is they had a chance to seee had also procured the copy of David Mayo’s material to even do the comparison with.  He was holding his material in confidence and we sent investigators in there.  Bob Mithoff was a deep cover plant for us, and he just got copies of their material so that we could do this.  Their organization was infiltrated in more ways than one, as far as the amount of pressure and stress that we brought against AAC.  Back to Mary Anna Fouser chambers.  In effect, we were looking at these differences and comparing the material, that was pretty much done in back chambers.  I don’t think the opposition attorneys were very happy about it.  Subsequently, when we came back in and I finished my testimony and Ray Mithoff came up as a witness and he spoke for a while.  We were granted an injunction a TRO against David Mayo using those materials, which, in effect, closed down the AAC.  Like I say in retrospect, as he wrote 98% of that stuff anyway, he had all the right in the world to use it.  From the tactics and the things that I just described to you, same thing has subsequently happened to CAN.  You put in deep cover plants that no one ever suspects, and you just wear them out.  What happened is…
L:	Can I ask you a specific question, and you will be able to keep your train of thought?
J:	What I’m getting to is the judge tampering part.
L:	My question is this, did RTC and Scientology knowingly claim that these were their copyrights, knowing that they were not their copyrights, that David Miscavige was the true author of these documents?
J:	..not David Miscavige, David Mayo.
L:	David Mayo was the true author of these documents, and that he was the true copyright holder according to the copyright laws?
J:	This is what I know about that.  Every one of those iss-79 issues.  He wrote them all.  They you have LRH/DM, and whoever the typist was.  In effect, Mayo sat down and authored those things.  Whether he authored them from LR Hubbard notes or personal meanings is not anything that I could speak on because I wasn’t there.
L:	You don’t if he did or not.
J:	I do know for a fact.  I do know, subsequently in the church, in seeing how they issue materials, a lot of it, it could just be something with three lines on it, like this from L. Ron Hubbard, they turn it into a two page bulletin.  It’s a process of getting a little piece here, and a little piece there, and then someone actually composing it and making it make sense.  In its original state.
L:	The current practice is that in a bulletin that says it was written by L. Ron Hubbard may have as little as 2 or 3 lines out of 2 pages.
J:	And he’s never seen it or laid eyes on it.
L:	OK. Is it your understanding that they know this and yet they claim the whole policy was written by L. Ron Hubbard?
J:	Sure.
L:	They present it as completely authored by L. Ron Hubbard.  Is it your understanding that the average staff member, or member of the church, who receives this policy, with L. Ron Hubbard’s name at the bottom truly believes that this was written by L. Ron Hubbard?
J:	Oh yes, they truly believe it, they have to read it to each other.  If they make a method 9, do a stumble, oh yes.  They have a separate organization out there called RTRC which is the actual organization that compiles and issues all these letters, these ACLBs, BBs, whatever.
L:	It’s basically a manufacturing plant? 
J: 	Right.
L: 	And it gives the apparency, if I’m understanding this, no matter how much is written by L. Ron Hubbard, it generates it as if the whole document was written by L. Ron Hubbard.
J:	Exactly.  Like you sit down, especially towards the end, and then some of these concepts and issues are not even anything thve an issue authority network in place in Scientology, where anything that is issued goes through IA and then is issued to all the orgs.  I was the senior person over issue authority in Scientology during my tenure as Deputy Inspector General External in RTC.  IA was just one area that I had.  I would see these things, see the process.  They would compile an issue, maybe based on 15, 20 other different disrelated things in order to make a point about a particular subject, and then would say L. Ron Hubbard wrote this, when in fact, in its original form you could never, it would never make the sense that it makes when they finish the compilation.
L:	Did you ever see them take something that L. Ron Hubbard Let’s just say, for example…
J:	OT VIII.
L:	He never did OT VIII?
J:	He had something about OT VIII, and the original I never saw, but a person that did see the original..
L:	Who was that?
J:	Vaughn Young.  It had no more writing on it than this.  But, there was a lot of other little scraps of paper around.  Again, it was a compilation process.
L:	Somebody did this, not L. Ron Hubbard.
J:	Oh yes, Ray Mithoff did this.
L:	One has no way of knowing Mithoff took whatever notes that were there, if those notes were really related to OT VIII.
J:	Or anything.
L:	And yet the church issued OT VII as authored as L. Ron Hubbard from his old notes, this was his work.  There was nothing that said, assembled by Bob Mithoff.
J:	Ray Mithoff.
L:	It didn’t have anything like that.
J:	It would have RM, it would have LRH/RM and whoever the typist was, just like the NOTs materials.
L:	Did you ever see Scientology take -- like car washing, we know there is a policy on car washing -- but something like using an automatic teller, and all of a sudden a policy appears, authored by L. Ron Hubbard, on something that he never wrote anything on?
J:	Like how to do laundry.  There was just an insanity about L. Ron Hubbard’s laundry.  These smells, these smells make him crazy.  There was a point where he would have his laundry come to the basin, they would wash up a bunch of stuff, and send it back out to him.  He would be complaining about the soap, the scratching on the skin, the smell.  So, a whole big research project was done to get un-scented washing soap.  No one in the Sea Org can wear anything with a scent.  They still practice this today even though that stupid son of a bitch is long dead.  Then me, being a smoking person, I end up being up being the last person on the line to have to smell his stuff.  He never complained once I started that.  I brought in an issue authority.  It used to be in that special unit.
L:	The research that was done on soaps and cleaning and detergent was written up as a policy, with his name on it, and he never did the research, never wrote a line of it, and it was copyrighted under his name.
J:	How to wash shirts and stuff, I mean tubs, big tubs were bought.  You would literally take a brand new shirt and it would be in tatters by the time you were done, washing the smell out of them, washing the sizing out of them.
L:	We take a little tangent, there’s reasons for this, I will connect it up as we go through.  You will logically get where some of these things are going.  Some of this stuff relates to our court case right here.  They claim that everything, every line, every word, in every policy that bears the name of L. Ron Hubbard was written by L. Ron Hubbard.
J:	That’s just a flat out lie. 
L:	They’re using that for their copyrights, that all of it belongs to L. Ron Hubbard and the L. Ron Hubbard estate, and they’re trying to enforce that with the judge.  Let’s go back to Mary Anne Fouser.
J:	Now, what was happening is that there was this franticness to get this TRO against the AAC.  They were having some party that weekend.  Just prior to that, we were infiltrating them and doing these little operations.  Gary Clinger actually showed up with the Jewish yamalka on, and all of these plants were there.  We wrote this up and planned it, executed it.  It just made their event a nightmare.  They ended up calling the police because we had secretly rented the place above the AAC and were bugging it.  We knew what they were saying, all the  involved.  They just never had a chance.  We were in such a panic about, on yeah, and then they got an injunction, once they discovered these things, they got an injunction against the church for the harassment and being on the property and coming around.  They actually got the first injunction, which the only cover we had at that point was Bob Mithoff in there.  So, of, this just caused a panic, now these sons of a bitches got something against the church, and we quickly have to do this thing and move on this RICO thing because it was looking bad.  We were already in suit with them and we were doing all these harass productions.  It was the weekend.
L:	One thing, is it your understanding that to record someone without their permission is a crime in most states.
J:	Yeah.
L:	Did they know that this was a crime to bug people’s homes and record their private conversations without their permission?
J:	Sure.  That’s not the first time and that’s the difference I can talk to you about other things.  I’ll give you something real rude.  There was a staff member, Bill Finell, kind of strange, the guy just acted kind of strange, people thought he was strange, he had wife, Holly Finell, she worked at RTRC.  There was a concern that they were going to blow this that and the other thing.  Rick Aznaran went got a bugging device, a lamp, we had them moved, Vicky had them moved from they were living to another place where we bought a lamp with a bug in it, so that we could get some insight on staff members.
L:	You bugged your own staff members?
J:	Rick and I are sitting out in a field with headphones on, while this guy and his wife were having sex, doing whatever they’re doing.  It was horrible.  They’d go to sleep.  This would go on night after night, after night.  It’s beyond…
L:	Would you think that tactic had been used on other staff members who theof their own ministers, they are ministers, staff members, because staff members ae 80’s.
L:	So, they are bugging their own ministers without their permission?
J:	Yeah, using high tech spy equipment, radio receivers, radio transmitters, bugging devices.
L:	Go on with…
J:	OK, it was Friday, too late to get in a motion with the judge.  The whole weekend is going to pass and they’re having a party, and through intelligence it was discovered that Mayo was going to give these packs to certain people to start these groups.  Robin Scott was one of them, over in England, Maura [?] Steve Bell Maine [?] in Scotland and England, and there was some people in Copenhagen, I don’t remember their names.  The church was in a panic about that because they had done their ODC so very well, they were sending staff members like Lynn Farney and other OSA people to her house to bring her this motion to try to get it.  Which was not successful, because something happened, security got pissed off at them, and they didn’t get her to just grant an immediate TRO and we ended up having to go to court on it, she granted it at that time.
L:	Did she disclose that you had come to her house privately?  Did she disclose that?
J:	No, there was never any mention of that.
L:	Was there a lawyer with Lynn Farney when they went to approach the judge privately?  Do you have any recollection?
J:	No.  I don’t think that there was. I don’t think that there was.   
L:	So, Farney himself went to the judge’s home?
J:	Right, standing out there.
L:	Did he have something for her to sign?
J:	Yeah, he had the papers.
L:	And some attorney in Scientology had prepared that?
J:	Yes.
L:	The security would not let Farney into the house.  Continue on with the story.
J:	The following Monday, or Tuesday, I d-joined with what I told you earlier, where we were in court and went to the judge’s back chambers and got her and got the TRO that day.  Later on an investigation was being done in relationship to that specific suit.  At this time, when that investigation started, I was no longer in a high position; I’m basically lower than whale shit.  It was explained to me, and I don’t even remember the case, that the church was being accused of judge tampering.  The FBI wanted to talk to me, specifically, of all damn people, who knew the least, to go in and talk to them.  I just basically went up and told them what I told you.  I was told that some people went out there, and it was an unsuccessful thing, but beyond that I didn’t know.  But, in retrospect, if you look at the ODC that they do on the judge, on every judge that they get, and how they then send professionals in to talk to people that are close to them, to really test the waters, this is the way it works.
L:	Are they sending in people like 
J:	Attorneys.
L:	Are they sending people in close to leak out bits of the information that they’ve collected for the purpose of intimidating the judge?
J:	No, first they will try to find out, how does the judge feel about Scientology.  Let some friend of a friend of a friend find out.  They’re paying money, big money, for this information.  They will do that and try to coerce any attorney, “Look, this is what we need, you’ve got an in, you want to make a little quick money, do this.”
L:	So, they find out how the judge feels, that’s not illegal, that’s just investigation.  Where do you feel that, what else, did you hear something else that makes you think that they tampered with this judge.
J:	No, I haven’t heard anything else beyond that.  I don’t think that the judge herself, in all honestly, this is my opinion, was that way.  I don’t think she was that way.  I think she made a decision based on the evidence.  Here’s stug.
J:	So it was like, what was she supposed to do?
L:	Did you ever hear anything that they in any way told her they had personal information about her through any source?
J:	I know they knew who her husband was, and I knew they just knew everything about her.
L:	OK. Let’s talk about is there any other judge, or members of the court, that you know that Scientology may have tampered with, bribed, intimidated?
J:	Charles O’Rielly.  I think that they had him beat up one night in a club.  This was done in conjunction with Gene, their PI.
L:	Gene Ingram.
J:	Gene Ingram.  There was some club. This was during the trial, I guess it was your trial, as a matter of fact.  They were in Los Angeles, and there was this club that Charles O’Rielly liked to go to.  It was known that he liked to go there.  They were just insane about this Charles O’Rielly.  Specifically, I remember this, the day after Charles was beat up, no, I back it up.  Marty Rathbun and Gene Ingram were heavily into following Charles from the time the courtroom was over.  Wasn’t it Breckenridge that was the judge?
L:	No it wasn’t Breckenridge, it was Swearinger.
J:	Swearinger.  They hated that judge and they hated Charles O’Rielly, because apparently….  I was not necessarily involved in that, because that was not anything that had anything to do with trademarks, and I was primarily concerned with trademarks in my executive position in the church.
L:	What did you hear?
J:	What I was hearing days prior to Charles actually getting beat up, and then days after, was, this like something between David Miscavige, Marty Rathbun and Gene Ingram.  Because I was at ASI on other matters, I would hear some of this stuff.  But Dave Miscavige made it very clear that this was on a need to know basis, what Gene Ingram and Marty his month somebody’s going to beat him up.  He’s really loud and boisterous, he’s such an asshole and we had so and s to deceive him, like buying him a drink, talking to him.  Then it seemed like there was a day when they said, we know where this guy’s at, we know what we’re going to do, in relation to Charles O’Rielly.  He’s going to get a big surprise.  This is what I remember, specifically, and then…
L:	Was David Miscavige saying this?
J:	No, Marty saying it to David Miscavige and Gene Ingram was there, and I’m there and Vicky’s there. Then Dave would just be elated about this, he’d be so happy, “OK, OK, OK.”  Then now, the next day, “Charlie got beat up, oh man it was so funny, if you could have seen see his face,” Marty’s telling this to me and Vicky, no it was me and Vicky was there, Dave Miscavige was there, Norman Starkey was there.  They were just hooting and hollering and thinking this was the greatest thing that happened since sliced bread.  Gene Ingram was there and he wouldn’t speak when I was there, but Marty would kind of come and tell the story.  Gene Ingram was kind of kept away from everybody.  It is my belief that they orchestrated that confrontation that O’Rielly had.
L:	Did Marty or anyone ever say that anything which directly lead you to believe that they were involved in getting Charlie beat up?
J:	It seemed, like I said, in days prior, they were orchestrating something that would set something off like that.  The details escape me.  It was like a hard meeting every time, “OK, what did he do, where did he go? OK, this is what we’re going to do, that is that we’re going to do.”  They’re planning it, so it seems like it was orchestrated for that to happen.
L:	If you remember more details abut that, let me know, if you remember any conversations, anything anybody specifically said…
J:	They was like, why are you even saying this around Jesse?  He was so happy, had to tell someone.
L:	David Miscavige? 
J:	Yes.
L:	Did he say, “Charlie got what he deserved”
J:	No, he would be just insanely laughing, happy.
L:	Did you ever hear anything about Judge Swearinger’s dog being drown?  Nothing at all.  He had a little collie that somebody climbed over the fence and drowned the dog in the pool.
J:Maybe M never heard.  One of the biggest things that happens to people who stand up to Scientology is their pets start dying.  Their animals disappear or die, it’s been a pattern through the IRS investigators who were having problems with their pets, I’ve had problems with pets.  Other people who have stood up to Scientology. Do you have any knowledge about anyone every talking about hurting an animal because it’s not a felony and it sends a signal, it’s close to the family, and it really sends a terror signal.
J:	Nothing like that, not in those terms, but I remember being in an ASI boardroom -
- and again this is something that will come to me more strongly later -- where Marty was talking the godfather movie when the horse head appeared.  He was alluding to doing this to other people that were critics of Scientology, scaring people by doing it. I do remember.  
L:	Do you remember any more specifics about what he said?
J:	I remember, this is what I remember.  David Miscavige was there, Norm was there, I was there, Vicky was there, Marty was there, some other, maybe somebody from OSA, I’m trying to think who it would have been. Maybe Edith Bucaley, and Klaus Bucaley used to be over the OSA network.  I remember at a break period, Marty bringing it up.  I think one of the attorneys was there, I don’t know if it was John Peterson. It could have been Joe, I doubt it.
L:	Joe Yanni?
J:	Yeah, because Joe used to be an attorney for the church.  Anyway, we were in that meeting and they were making a joke about how intense that scene was, and maybe perpetrating something similar to that on other people.  I remember Dave saying, look, shutup, don’t talk about that kinda stuff.  That’s what I remember right now, specifically about it.  I may remember more about it later.  That’s what comes to mind now.  
L:	Do you recall any other instances involving another, you talked about Charlie, involving any lawyers, any judges, any clerks, sometimes to get a clerk to bury a document, change a document, change an evidence.  Do you ever remember hearing anything about altering the court records or tampering with a judge, or intimidating a judge, or letting them know that they have blackmail on them.
J:	I think they did something to try to intimidate Judge Breckenridge.  I think they did.  The way that I think it was done, and because I wasn’t directly involved I can’t tell you, “It happened Sunday at 12:15,” that type of thing.  What they did was influence, just like they do now.  They go to your friends and family and say, well, it’s not them that’s doing it, they are paying people to do it, like haveu’re out of line.”  This is what a program or operation that they had going for Breckenridge, to discredit him as a judge.  I think they took articles out, they did quite a bit during that time.
L:	They actually paid people to go to his friends and ask the friends or the associates of the judge to go to the judge and tell him he was out of line, with the way he was treating Scientology?
J: 	Right. 
L:	That’s interesting, that is very interesting.  
J:	That’s part of their policy, the ODC, they use that as a form of intimidation in and of itself.  Like Lynn Farney would be a key one that would orchestrate that kind of shit, where they would just say he’s slandering Scientology and try or dig up some dirt.  Dig up crimes, he did this, he drinks, he runs around with whores, whatever.
L:	Would they give that to the people that they were trying to influence, that they were trying to get to influence the judge?  In other words would they say,
J:	They would give that to friends, family associates, spread that kind of idea.
L:	What they picked up in their investigation?
J:	To back the judges off.
L:	This is an important subtlety, because if they are gathering information about the judge’s sex life, his business life, his credit, anything that would embarrass or discredit him, then giving it to his associates.
J:	Let me finish.  They would do ODC and CDC.
L:	CDC is what?
J:	Covert data collection.
L:	Tell us about covert data collection.
J:	Now ODC, you can go and get public records; CDC is going around and interviewing friends, associates, somehow getting ahold of bank records, somehow getting ahold of phone records.
L:	When you say somehow, would they obtain these in a legal manner, to the best of your knowledge?
J:	No. They would pay people to do it for ths.  They would knowingly pay him, he would tell the church, “I can get these illegal records,” and the church would pay them.  The people that would pay them are the attorneys.
J:	It would come through OSA, and the attorneys would pay the private investigators for investigation.  It was like it was all legal, it looks all perfectly fine, but it would go from OSA to the attorneys they hired to the investigators, and that’s how they get their information.
L:	Would the investigators tell the attorneys tin investigators, it’s like a network, Gene Ingram being the main one.  He knows and works with all of these others.  The thing would happen like this, “Hey Gene, it would be nice if we could get his bank records or his phone numbers to see who he’s calling.”  Or whatever else.
L:	Who would ask that?
J:	Person in, well, this is how they mask and do this hypothetical situation.  Like Lynn Farney, who’s assigned to a case would say to an attorney, “Would it be helpful if we knew such and such about that judge, or another attorney, like if we knew, if we came up with information that says he hires prostitutes every other weekend or he’s cheating on his wife, or whatever? Would that help us, or he’s already prejudiced against Scientology and he’s been saying whatever.”  Whatever kind of dirt they could dig up, an attorney would say, “Yeah, yeah, that would be helpful.”  Scientology would give a hypothetical situation to attorneys, “If we had this information, would it help our case move along?”  “Yes.”  Of course, he knows what they’re talking about.  So then they go to a person like Gene Ingram and say, “Look, let’s figure this out, we need to know this about this guy, where need to know where’s he at, we need to know who he’s calcords.”
J:	Yep, right. And then to Gene, “Who can get it?”  Well, Gene, “I know so and so and so, he can do it, he can do it, but it’s gonna cost you.”  So Gene would set it up, have the act done.  Then they would tell the attorneys, “We’re going to get this information, we’re hired this person who comes to your office and you pay them.”  They just basically shelling money through.
L:	A couple of important questions:  Who would generally tell Gene Ingram to go out and get phone records and bank records?  What person?
J:	Marty Rathbun, Lynn Farney, I’m talking about during my period of time.   Lynn Farney would do it, and then there was a guys part of their policy, ODC/CDC.
L:	They’re going to get whatever they can, but the important distinction, did they know..
J:	I can’t speak for everyone’s mind.  They knew it was illegal, but they knew how to do it so they would never get caught at it.
L:	They knew it was illegal, they asked for illegal documents, they paid attorneys to break the law and obtain these illegal documents…
J:	They didn’t pay attorneys, the attorneys just shelled the money to the investigator.
L:	So, they didn’t pay the investigator, they didn’t do it directly. The lawyers did. 
J: 	The attorneys do.  
L: 	Now, did the lawyers, this is an important distinction, did the lawyers know that Scientology was telling the attorneys, telling the investigators to go get bank records and phone records?
J:	Of course.
L:	They knew it.  Name some of the attorneys that knew.
J:	Earle Cooley knew what the deal was on everything.  John Peterson, who is dead, knew everything. Moxon, as he was coming up and along, he kind of came up through Invest, he came up in that muck, in thnot one that I’m familiar with.
L:	How about the Yingling group?  Monique Yingling?
J:	I don’t know, I’d have to see some stuff.
L:	That’s a new name.  Any other Scientology attorneys that you knew who knew their private investigators were going out and getting illegal documents and they were paying them for them?  The illegal documents, the phone records…  Joe Yanni’s OK, leave him off. Do you want to repeat that? 
J:	No, I’m never going to speak against Joe.
L:	Joe’s OK, I deal with him all the time, so does Margaret.  We’ve been through all of this.
J:	I don’t want to say anything about him, without his permission.
L:	Did these bank records, I’ve had my bank cracked three times.
J:	It’s not hard.
L:	Three times, with codes on it.  Somebody is paying money -
counsels and subpoena, I want to see how much money you’re paying investigators.  You will find that to be an inordinate amount of money that the attorneys themselves are paying.
L:	How much do you think they pay for illegal bank records?  What do you think, $2,000, $5,000?  Any kind of a guestimate?
J:	That was on a need to know basis.  Everyone didn’t have that information.
L:	Question, when they would obtain, when the lawyers would get the investigators to go out and get the records…
J:	You’re not listening to me.  Lawyers had nothing to do with it.  The church would go directly to their lead investigators and say, this is….
L:	So, they would go to the church, and not even the attorneys? The attorneys were paying blind? 
J: 	Right. 
L: 	Holy shit.
J:	Yes.  They were just told, we hired him, pay the money, boom.  They were just used.
L:	That’s how they run the scams.
J:	They were just used to pay to make it look legal.
L:	They knew they were…
J:	Attorneys don’t even know what they have going on, and they don’t want to know and they tell them.  That would be good, how you get it is your business, don’t tell me about it, but I’ll pay some investigators and if you’ve got some information I can use, great.
L:	So, they’re paying the investigator to get the stuff any way they can, they know that the investigators are aren’t obtaining it legally, but because they don’t see the documents, they’re just writing the checks, so it all has the apparancy of legality, at the attorney’s office and it has the appearance because Scientology isn’t paying for this illegal information, they’re just getting it.
J:	Yeah but Scientology is paying for it.  It’s coming from…
L:	It’s being laundered through the attorneys? 
J: 	Right.  
L: 	So, Scientology would get the bank records, the phone records, what other illegal rec I’m saying is they would get, if they wanted to know your criminal history, they’d have it like that [Snaps fingers].  Now a normal person cantrly, phone records.
L:	Tax records, IRS 1040s, like your IRS records?
J:	Yeah, they would know, they could get that. They could get whatever.
L: 	OK.
J: 	OK, let’s take a break. I’m done with this today. 


FACTNET 1 -  PAGE 16

