L. Ron Hubbard
EXECUTIVE DIRECTIVE
LRH ED 348 INT
Birthday RJ
13 March 1983

RON'S JOURNAL 37
Hello!
And thank you for your good wishes on this 13 March 83.
I am well and doing very fine indeed and I sincerely hope you are the same, and, believe me, earnestly, that is the only reason I have done the work I've done this last half century.
If at a breath I could wish the whole universe right as you too may have dreamed, it would be wonderful. But it takes a lot more than breaths or wishes to accomplish that and it requir that you also do your part in it if you and those dear to you ar going to make it fully.
So I have a Birthday gift for you to return the flow of the avalanches of good wishes and remembrances that you send me. And as I accept them gratefully, so I hope you will accept this legacy.
It is the tech.
You see, despite inferences to the contrary, this tech has not been available before anywhere and was not even known.
I say this as no boast, but with something of amazement for you see researches by most others in the past have not been aimed at bettering man but making him more suggestible and obedient.
As a proof of this, any trouble Dianetics and Scientology had is traced to those who engage in suppression of individuals and man.
They use numerous ways to attempt the eradication of this tech. Denying it is the first. Invalidation is the second. Corrupting it is the next. But all these efforts in whatever guise, boil down to just one thing: to prevent people from achieving and enjoying freedom.
Those who attempt to suppress our tech do not themselves have the faintest clue of how to better anyone. This they cannot do. And this is your ace in the hole.
You see, truth must exist before lies and truth blows the lie away as it is later on the chain. And any suppressive person or group seeking to dissuade you or invalidate you deals only in lies. These lies are quite easily spotted if you know the Data Series.
Most people get so confused by all the lies around, they come to believe anything they're told and that's the reason the suppressive lies. But with the Data Series, one can spot bad data so easily it is itself a sort of relief to know it.
And as you burrow your way down through the layers of lies, you come to truth. And truth blows the lies away.
So we come to this legacy of tech. It is the route, which if purely used, uncorrupted and unperverted, will bring you at last to the vast free vistas of freedom and truth and the glory of being really you.
But this is not all, and this is my true message to you this Birthday: if you know the tech, it will protect you.
You do not even have to believe it works. If you really know the true tech, no one and nothing can hurt you or demean you in the ages to come.
So it is not just freedom that is the goal; it is the maintaining of it one must assure.
Those who do not let you have it, twist it, invalidate it and pretend it is something else that's meant, are seeking to deny you not just the road out but the armor of knowledge that will guard you.
So this is my gift to you this Birthday in return for all your well wishing: the legacy of tech.
The policy is there to guard and deliver the tech as well as to help make a better society and this is also yours.
It means of course that you yourself must more than whiff at the bouquet of tech. It means hard and earnest study and precise application for only those will bring it into full bloom in your life.
It is true that paths are sometimes rough and that travel can be tiring and long. But wait!
There are vistas never dreamed of, there are joys never even known, there are glories no past glory ever surpassed. These wait for you but only if you accept my legacy and help bring these things about.
And in the years to come and the ages that follow, the hosannas will be for your Birthday, not mine.
My Love,
RON

L. RON HUBBARD 
FOUNDER

Accepted by the 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
of the 
CHURCH OF SCIENTOLOGY INTERNATIONAL
BDCSI:LRH:iw
