ASSESSING 3D
A lecture given on 13 December 1961

All right. This is 13 Dec. AD 11, right?
Oh, dear! How sad some of these people are and how bright some others look. Well, they go up and they go down and some go up and some go down. And it hadn't anything to do with the auditing. Well, anyhow . . .
I want to give you a little more data here about putting a 3D package together.
Now, at the time I'm speaking to you, there is no cinch. Nothing on this criteria should be taken as a lead-pipe cinch in this stuff I'm about to give you. These are indicators. And as soon as we've got a lead-pipe cinch figured out, why, I'll give you the lead-pipe cinch. But until that time let me give you what thinking there is on it.
A 3D package is as good as it is assessed. And that's all it is. It's as good as it is assessed. You get an assessment on a pc which is well done, you—you get your list, you bleed down for any other items on the meter. You make sure there are no further items on the meter and you make sure that the reaction on your question, "Are there any more items?" is not an ARC break. You know, more people have gotten hooked with that. you know, they can stack up to a thousand terminals with the greatest of ease by simply saying each time, "Are there any more terminals?" and the pc is ARC broke, gets an ARC break reaction on the needle and then flounders around and digs up some terminals. And the auditor never says, "Is this question an ARC break?" at which time he would find out, yes by God, it sure is! And then, you get your list null. That is that the meter, then, is bled down. The only thing that gets in the road of that, however, is that ARC break reaction.
Therefore, you get a complete list—be sure when you've bled down the meter that your list is complete and that is your complete list. Now, your pc from time to time will want to add another item or two. This is fine and if he wants to add them, you put them down. Now, as you assess this, it assesses quite mechanically. If your rudiments are in, you will get reaction. And if the rudiments are in, you will get the item. And it doesn't take any long Egyp­tian dream of eternity to assess the thing out. It just brrrrrr-pang! And you're taking much—you must adjust your viewpoint of how long it takes to get a 3D item.
The longest one is the goal. Why? Because you have nothing in view. Nothing. It is just a wide desert and you are staring across this uneven, monotonous plain. This is life. And there's nothing showing and until you get a goal, you haven't got a handle onto the Goals Problem Mass. But as soon as you've got a goal—now, it may turn out to be the oppgoal. But you've got a goal. You've got something that reacts. You got something that stays in.
Now, get that, make sure it's the only one, make sure it's right and take off from there. Get your next item. If this item does not pan out rapidly and there seems to be a lot of trouble concerning this particular item and it seems to be all tangled up, try for another item. Just don't keep beating the pc to pieces. Well, look, you've got a—you've got a goal—we don't care what goal it is—let's get a goal in opposition to it. Terminal unknown.
If we can't get the oppterminal, let's try to get the oppgoal. All right. And maybe we couldn't get the oppgoal at a lick and a promise and quickly you see? We can't get that oppgoal either. It—apparently, every time we speak of opposition to this pc, the pc goes zzzz. See? Well, let's get something on the pc's side, then. We've got a goal; we're fairly sure it's the pc's goal; at least at this stage of the game we can assume that it's the pc's goal. So, let's get his modifier.
And finding his modifier is a very simple proposition. If the pc is bogged down on finding his oppgoal or oppterminal, he will pep up on finding his modifier. And if he doesn't pep up on finding his modifier, you've already got the opposition goal; that's why you couldn't find it. Heh-heh! Simple!
So, anyway, if we've got his goal and modifier and we haven't got an oppterm and an oppgoal yet, do you know we can find his terminal and then find the opposition terminal to that terminal. See how many ways we can weave this thing? We don't care how many ways we're going to weave it. Don't get the idea that you can spend session after session after session after ses­sion looking for a 3D item. This is balderdash; this is complete nonsense. It does not take very long to find a 3D item; it takes about one hour once the goal is found.
So you just might as well settle your sights on that particular target and realize that if you can't get a full 3D package on somebody, after you've got the goal, if you can't wrap this up in about ten hours, that you certainly are bucking the tiger in some way or another. And the usual way it is, is because you have been too optimistic and you have taken the pc before the pc was prepared for an assessment. That is the first biggest fault.
Your next fault on the thing is that you are looking for items you've got. Now, that's the next biggest error that auditors are making; they're looking for items they already have.
Now, how is that? They have found a goal, only it turns out to be the opposition goal, so when they try to find the opposition goal they've got it! So of course they can't find it. See, they've got a terminal. But they keep looking for the opposition terminal to the goal or something of the sort. Only they're looking for it on a bias, you see.
They've got the oppterm, they haven't got the terminal. So, you look and look and look and look and look and look for an item if you already have it. And you won't find it. It's there! You've already got it. It's—there it is. you see what I'm talking about now?
All right. Now, you play this thing crisscrossed, in other words, and if something starts giving you trouble, you find something else and it'll start clarifying. But remember, you're taking apart a piece of black porridge that's full of string, that has been made with the best quality glue. And it's a horri­ble mess and it is just lucky as the devil that the goal sticks out. That is just lucky, because that's the only handle you've got.
That's why you must try to get the original goals list of a pc, the first one he ever wrote. That's why you must take any terminal that ran well earlier on the case—the first terminal that ran well on the case and assess from there. That's in patching up cases and getting cases that have already been run on Routine 3 and so forth. You must use these items. Because you aren't going to find another one; you're going to find another subordinate package that will never collide with a Goals Problem Mass. And you can run the pc practically forever if you're not using the original items.
That's something to know. So when patching them up, you say, "Well, what was the goal found on you? To shoot cats. All right, that's fine. Now, what was the terminal that was run? A cat shooter. All right." That, so far as you're concerned, is the entrance to the 3D package. That was the first goal and the first terminal. That was the entrance to the 3D package.
This has been run on somebody, don't you see. This person's already come up to free needle with a Goals Problem Mass still floating around in their vicinity, ready to key in someplace up the track, see? So those are the things you use and you try to put a 3D together.
Now, you will find that most of your Routine 3 cases which failed and which did not go Clear, were being run on their opposition terminal, possibly with the opposition goal and this must be a great number of them. Must be a lot of them were found wrong way to. All right.
Therefore, although you've taken the person's goal—this person has been audited to Clear. Let's go that extreme. Or not audited to Clear; we don't care. But he's been previously assessed and audited. Let's take those items which have already been done on the case . . . of course, if he's gone Clear, it's prima facie evidence the fact that you had the right goal and the right terminal. Now you've got a goal and audit it so as to find a Goals Problem Mass. So you've got to have the oppterm and the oppgoal and the modifier and the rest of this package. And you're liable to wind up here with some­body who has had a beautiful floating free needle and just about the time you looked for the modifier it all went clank again.
In other words, you keyed it in, you didn't stand around waiting for life to key it in. So it goes clank! So now you're going to find the Goals Problem Mass and you're going to shoot it full of holes and this person then will come out at the other end, if you do any kind of a good job at all and the needle will go free again and this Clear will stay stable and he won't be Clear on just one dynamic, you see?
All right. Now, the person who has been audited endlessly on Routine 3, but has never gone Clear—ah, this is another proposition. By the rules of the game, just a fluke, you might have his right goal and his right terminal, but somehow or another it hasn't stacked up right or something or other or some­thing or other. But the high probabilities are that you were auditing—they were auditing the wrong side. But you still take it, because it's probably part of the 3D package.
Now, you don't take it as complete evidence that it is the 3D package. See, you don't—you don't take that as complete evidence. But you know the person was audited on it. And maybe it was a bad job of assessment and maybe it's a lot of things and maybe the reads aren't very big on it and maybe there's going to be a lot of trouble about it. Well, that's—you're an auditor. That's what you inherit—trouble.
All right, so this situation then, integrates on the basis that you take this unsuccessfully run 3 case, Routine 3 case, and those are simply conditional. Those are nothing but conditionals. It was the probable goal. It was the probable terminal. That's all. And then try to check out a 3D from there. Well, now, you could crisscross a 3D from there; you can probably arrive at the Goals Problem Mass and you will eventually perhaps even lose the original terminal they were run on. How do you do that? You find the opposition terminal, the opposition goal, and then you find a modifier and then you go back and you find—you take their terminal. And now you try to find an opposition terminal to it and if it's not the one you found for a 3D package, it wasn't right. See? So, you could check this thing out.
Now, you can do other things. You can take the terminal, find the opposi­tion terminal to it and then find a goal for the opposition—opposition goal for the opposition terminal or a goal for it. Check back, find out if this matches against the goal and then find a modifier and then find a new terminal. The old terminal disappears. It was simply used as a leader. Do you see how you could do that?
But when you finally get through, you should have all five items of the 3D package checking out uniformly. They all ought to tick the same way. Click, click, click, click, click. And incidentally, for your amusement, your first Prehav level ticks exactly the same as the rest of the package.
And if you haven't got a package on 3D that goes click, click, click, click, click, five times, there is something wrong with it. So what do you do? You get the rudiments in, you straighten it all out and you check it across. It isn't that the whole package is wrong. Some of that package is probably right. But some of the package will null and some of the package will stay with you. So you take the package that stayed with you and you get crisscrosses, you get "What would oppose a cat shooter?" you see, and then you put in a new terminal. You do a new assessment, there and get a new something-or-other in there. And you keep working it on a cross-play, don't you see, until you've finally got five items that will stand up and stay in. And then you've got a 3D package.
But even then you're not sure the package is in proper ordered. Now, having a 3D package and having one all arranged for the pc, are two differ­ent things. You can have five items and they all stacked up beautifully. You've got them all assessed, all the items nulled, they all read the same. But you haven't found yet who is the pc.
Now, when I first entered into this, it seemed to me to be a very easy thing, because I simply asked the pc and there was no one doubt in the pc's mind as to which one the pc was. But since running it and since it's been in your hands, there's apparently considerable doubt and argument as to which one the pc is. So, a piece has gone astray here, so we need a regulator for this thing.
Now, once you've got the package, that simply means that all the parts of the package check out and there isn't one part of it going null and coming back and going null and coming back.
Now, mind you, you can get a bouncer modifier. The only thing that is wrong with all of this is you can get a bouncer modifier that'll make the whole package flicker. If you had a modifier "but always be late," you're liable to get the whole package on a quarter-of-a-second latent read. Did you know that? That's quite amusing. I mean, the package is obeying the modifier. So there isn't any great certainty there. But look, the chances of your getting five items that all read a quarter-of-a-second late are so remote; it is the package. See? The modifier has a lot to do with the behavior of it.
Now, if you want to get rid of a modifier, all you'd have to do is deinten­sify it. Just chant the bouncers and denyers and so forth to the pc. A very crude operation, but it can be done that crudely. "Leave, leave, leave, leave, leave, leave, leave, leave, leave, leave, leave, leave, leave, leave everything, leave everything, leave everything, leave everything, leave everything, leave everything—." And all of a sudden the thing will read. Of course, it won't read very long, because you haven't pulled the bottom off of it yet and it'll charge up again. But you can at least get it discharged to a point where you can make it read and if you can make a modifier read that way, you can make a whole package read for a short time. Interesting, isn't it? It won't be until you run it that you actually get charge off of it.
Now, those are criteria of selecting a package. It does require a bit of auditor skill. But less skill, ordinarily, than you would imagine. It's basically—selecting each one of the items is a simple mechanical job of get­ting the list complete, and then getting it all null with the rudiments in.
Now, I'll give you a check to find out whether or not the rudiments are in. At any given time, if you have a proven part of a 3D package, you can say that to the pc. If you get a reaction, the rudiments are in. If you don't get a reaction, the rudiments are out, period! Very quick way to find out if your rudiments are straight. Very, very quick.
All right. Therefore, if you've got a part of the 3D package that has been proved out, why you can always find out if the rudiments are in or out and you can always find out what the rest of the package ought to look like. Well now, will you please get clever and when you're nulling a list down, look for the reaction of the proved-out part of the package. Where is that reaction on the list? Don't be a knucklehead! See? The thing has a tiny rock slam and when you're busy nulling a list, you notice there's a tiny rock slam on this and you notice there's a tiny rock slam on that and a tiny rock slam on that—you bleed down the list very carefully, "Are there any more items? No, there are no more items." So, therefore you've got it; it's in one of those rock slams. Go ahead and null out the list, but you know what it's going to be before the pc finds out.
Then you're proving by nulling. You're not finding with nulling. You give me the original list of a couple of 3D items, I can run down them with an E-Meter, with—if I've got one proven item and I can tell you what it will be. It'll be that one or it'll be that one and that's it. Won't be any of the others. One of these two is locked on the other one.
Sometimes you're unfortunate enough to have a pc who's so jammed and he's got five, eight, ten items locked on one. Of course, they're all locked onto the Goals Problem Mass. But you have to be awfully close to the middle of it to get an actual, exact reaction to the goal. you got the goal, the goal is a small theta bop, let's say—they seldom are, but we'll say it's a theta bop—and you're going down this list and you see the—"a rat." That goes and "a cage" goes. Well, use your head. Rats have cages; cages will blow off, leaving a rat.
You usually know the 3D item before you've assessed it. you go down that list once—pang!—if you know what your goal reaction was. Now, you don't force this on the pc. This is just to make you sure. you don't force it on the pc. you don't bother to tell the pc anything about it at all. It's none of his business, after all, it's just his bank.
All right. But there's ways that you can spot this thing. And if you can't wind up with five items, all of which have an identical reaction on your needle, you haven't got a 3D package and that's all there is to it. But let us say we've gotten to that stage by the standard assessments which you are doing and we now find ourselves in this interesting position: Who is what? Which is what?
Now, in some large percentage—much, much better than three-quarters of the cases you audit—you will have no difficulty with this whatsoever. But the remainder have the opposition terminal, is so close to the terminal and the opposition goal is so close to the pc's goal, that these things flip around like a merry-go-round. There's always something happens to destroy the serenity of our ways and that is what is happening at this particular moment.
Therefore, as I mentioned to you in the last lecture, I have been on the track of this and I've gone a little bit further onto the track of this and what I'm—what is not absolute about this lecture is about what I'm about to give you right this minute. Apparently this is the way it fits. Here is a test you can make: You can take the probable terminal of the pc and the opposition terminal, the probable opposition terminal, and you put them down on a sheet of paper and you write down, "You. Term. Oppterm." You see, whatever they are. See, "You, waterbuck, tiger." All right.
Now, all you have to do is say to the pc, "How would you—or what would you do to solve problems, or what would you use to solve problems?" And I suppose, "What would you use to solve problems?" or "How would you go about solving problems?" or "What would you do to solve the problem?" And you write this down under "You," see. And you write down—he'll give you four, five, six, seven, eight, ten of them; we don't care how many.
All right, and then we take the terminal and then we say, "What would a waterbuck do to solve a problem?" or "How would a waterbuck solve a problem?" Whatever registers so that you can get Prehav level-type words out of the pc and we make a long list: eight, ten ways the waterbuck would be solving problems.
And then we take a tiger. Now, "How would a tiger solve problems?" And we make a long list here of how a tiger solves problems.
Now, we've got three lists. We ignore "You." That simply made it interesting We put it in there so the pc will start differentiating amongst these things, don't you see? This is—it's a very good auditing action. It's one of these little one-shot things the pc says, "Hey what do you know!" You know? That's the end of it. I mean, it doesn't go any further than that. you don't use these things for anything You're not making up your Prehav Scale. Don't do that. Because he would never think of the proper words to solve problems. If you ask a pc at any given moment, if you made him memorize the Prehav Scale and then rattle it off to you, he would leave out all of those levels on which he should be run, see? We've tested that. It was very interesting. Peter and Mary Sue—first time I came down with the Prehav Scale for the—for the course down in Joburg—I handed it over to them and they'd remembered it, you see, from something I'd given them the night before and they told the students all about it and they both left out Protect. Isn't that interesting? Both had left Protect out of the thing and Protect was hot on both of their cases.
So this is no action, then, by which you get a Prehav Scale. You could probably blow it up to that point with a meter bleed and you could be very, very upset. And I imagine some place if you found yourself in Arcturus and you didn't have a Prehav Scale and no textbooks and that sort of thing—you did this to several people, and bled them—a meter down each time or strained at it terribly, you would finally wind up with something like a Prehav Scale—an auxiliary Prehav Scale. That would be one way to get one.
But let's look this over now and let's find out that the pc's terminal is the lowest on the Tone Scale; not the highest, but the lowest.
Now, the earliest work I did in Routine 3 is quite interesting in the way the assessment is done and you still have a relic of this in some of the early descriptions of assessing. And it says you go up the scale until you start to get a rising needle. Remember this one?
Audience: Mm-hm. Yes.
You go up the scale until you start to get a rising needle and you come back down again because there's no sense going any higher.
Now, that one is quite interesting. Because the oppterm is always higher-toned. The tiger, to your state of mind, is a ravening, treacherous, lousy, verminous tramp, see? But to the pc, the tiger is knightly, charming, beautiful, sleek, lovely . . . What would a tiger use to solve problems? Diplomacy.
And it, frankly, will be at such variance with anything You might have a proper picture of the beast and you also might have a proper—improper picture of the beast. Who cares? But it's just very high-toned.
Now, I found this out empirically. I've looked around and I've—I've gotten some of the reactions on it and they're always very high-toned. The oppterm is high-toned. That's very interesting, isn't it? I'll tell you the why of this in just a moment. But it's really crazy.
You have the—it doesn't mean that it's a higher-toned terminal. That is to say the oppterm might well be a drunken bum on skid row, see. That doesn't prove anything by the name of the terminal. But a drunken bum on skid row—how would he solve problems? By being sweet to everyone, by being friendly, by being interested in other people's problems. And it'll be a wild show, let me tell you, man. It's going to be high-toned. This is an empirical guesstimate right at this time, about how this thing goes.
All right. And the pc's terminal, a waterbuck—a waterbuck uses treachery, meanness, sets traps, is socially unacceptable in general. How does he solve problems? How does he solve problems? By being vicious. By biting tigers.
Now, you'll be peculiarly struck by the fact that these three lists are so different. And that is really what makes the Goals Problem Mass, a Goals Problem Mass. Because these terminals, as you first look at them in the pc, are in violent disagreement and remember that a meter reads disagreement. So a Goals Problem Mass, of course, is piled up because "you" doesn't agree with a waterbuck, because a waterbuck doesn't agree with a tiger, because it's all a complete mishmash mess. And they use—and the first indicator is, is they use entirely different mechanisms of solving problems, so of course there's no agreement amongst them at all and you'll see that mirrored in those three lists. It's a—quite an amusing action.
It is sufficiently amusing that the beginning of your next session I'm going to ask you to do this little action, just for fun, if your pc is being—has got a 3D package or even if the pc only has a terminal and an oppterm as part of the package. Do this one and you will see what I'm talking about. It'll sound goofy, even to the pc.
So there's the methods of solving problems.
Now, the pc's terminal is the one the pc has the most reality on. Now, this has gotten mixed up over the years and some of the data given out by Routine 3 about the terminal being highest-toned should be interpreted this way: The terminal is higher-toned than the pc. We don't know what the pc is. 
We haven't got a clue what he means by "you." And he sure hasn't either. "You" is just something which is just up in seventh cloud nine. It—it's a some kind of a combination of terminals or something or other, but it certainly had nothing to do with the thetan. It doesn't mean "you a thetan." It just is "you." Lord knows who "you" is. It's some kind of a crisscross combination and a mishmash and a saintly idea of what he should be doing or shouldn't be doing
But the thetan actually is on the minus Tone Scale. Otherwise, he wouldn't have a false identity sitting in your auditing chair, called Bessy Ann or something like this, see? That thetan wouldn't have a false identity, if he weren't on the minus Tone Scale. He would be standing up throwing flitter around the room. That's about that.
A thetan who could be interested would be pretty close to visible. That's very high, see. A thetan, who all by himself without any dependency on any MEST or anything else could exert control directly, hasn't been seen on the track since Merlin. See, so your pc is lying actually, as a thetan, is down in the minus Tone Scale. And the pc goes up scale as you run the Goals Problem Mass out and the pc's terminal goes down scale and the oppterm tends to remain more or less the same. The oppterm is simply the oppterm and it doesn't have too much to do with anything. Except it sure has an influence on the Goals Problem Mass. Now, we'll go into that in a moment.
I'll give you some more of this conjectural material. The height on Tone Scale, then, is we know the thetan is going to be on the minus Tone Scale, so we're not going to worry about "you" because that doesn't mean anything. But as far as the terminal is concerned, it's going to be fairly low on the actual Tone Scale. The oppterm is going to be fairly high on the Tone Scale.
Somatics: If you run 3D levels on the pc and you are running the pc properly, as his own terminal, you are going to develop somatics. Somatics are going to develop—rough ones, bad ones—enough to make any pc cut and run. It may take him a long time to move up to the point of feeling that much, but he's going to feel them and they're rough. Well, why are they rough? Well, that's the reality of the case. That is how come the terminal is fixed there. The terminal is fixed there because any time it shifts, it hurts. So the pc doesn't let it shift. So he holds it in place. Because if it ever moved, it'd hurt.
Now, in view of the fact that he doesn't want this to hurt, some pcs would rather not run their own terminal. You get a condition there of a pc rather protesting against this and not really wanting to run his own termi­nal. Because it hurts. He'll scream like a banshee on the thing.
Now, the somatics are developed out of masses and these masses may at first be invisible to the pc or not really directly sensed by the pc, but are actually resident inside the pc's body, because they surround the thetan. The thetan is a mass of energy and mass. That's why he can't go anyplace and why he can't do the things anymore. He's in a trap of his own making and this we call a valence. But it is a mass package. And as you run the person, this somatic area should move closer and closer in to the body and finally take up residence in the body. It gets worse before it gets better. Believe me, running a Goals Problem Mass always gets worse and worse and worse before it gets any better. The pc, then, healthwise, does not necessarily appear to get better at all, but on the contrary, appears to get worse, but they're more cheerful about it.
All right. Now, that is an indicator. Now, if you're running—if you've chosen the opposition terminal and you're running the pc as the opposition terminal, the pc appears to be blown upon. The pcs sort of—well, their eye­brows sort of tend to vanish, you know and they sort of so on and they get watery-eyed and so on. It doesn't mean that they won't get roughed up run­ning their own terminal. They're going to get roughed up badly. But it's a peculiar—peculiar set of things. A great peculiarity is connected with this. Because it's something out there which is pushing them here.
The winds of space—a very good, descriptive thing. Because this could be—well, it starts to make their body disappear. Let me tell you—let me say that. The front of their body starts disappearing, as far as the sensory per­ception goes. I know that occurs. Instead of getting somatics in their body, their body starts to vanish. There's a different sensation involved in the thing and when you get some reality on it, it's better than my describing it to you.
The next thing is the Sec Check responses. Oh, you didn't think that one would come up and root. If you look over the old seventy-five hour Sec Checks of the pc, the pc is always answering on the mores of his own terminal. That is a little law: When sec checked before 3D is run, the pc only answers on the mores of his own terminal. And you can look that over and decide whether it's the—whether the—you've got a waterbuck. Well, has the pc been giving you the mores of the waterbuck or has the pc been giving you the mores of a tiger? And you can look that over. you could also differentiate the goal and the oppgoal the same way. These—this requires judgment. But it is a check. You can check up on this and you'll find it is an interesting thing to check up on.
You'll find that uniformly, this pc has been telling you now, "I'm a tiger! I'm a tiger, that's what I am, of course! Us tigers—us tigers always are very, very rough people and I am a tiger and there's no doubt about this." Well, if you miss the fact that his head is being pushed off, backwards—if you miss this fact, because it might be missed by you—you can look it up on his Sec Checks. Have his crimes been the crimes of a tiger? Or have his crimes been the crimes of a waterbuck?
You'll find that it's very hard pickings and so forth, but once you get the pattern and once you get the thread of it, now that you know these two terminals—you wouldn't be able to make any sense out of it before that. But you know you've got two terminals. You know you've got one as an oppterm and one as a terminal. If you go through their old Sec Checks you'll find that their Sec Check answers agree with one of the terminals. And that is the pc's terminal. That's quite fascinating. If you look that over and I think you'll find out that's—that's more or less correct. Quite amusing.
They would be giving you the kind of answer, while they were being sec checked, that that terminal would give and they won't ever give the oppterm kind of answer. They just won't ever give it. you just don't see it. I'll tell you why that is in a moment, too.
Next: The pc doesn't like his terminal. This is quite normal. At first the pc is very intrigued and very interested, and thinks this is fine. But on a careful check of this type of terminals, you will find there've been periods in his life when he didn't like this terminal. That is fairly true. Now, more importantly, as the pc is run, the pc will get into a giddy hatred of the termi­nal. They will think that terminal is just something they want nothing to do with. That terminal is just no good. That is the end of that. The terminal just isn't worth beans or buttons. They don't like it.
Now, it depends—the degree of overwhelm has a lot to do with this, but sooner or later, either at the beginning, with very little overwhelm, pc says, "Well, all right, so I'm a waterbuck. All right, yeah! Well, that's very interest­ing. Waterbuck. Well, thank heavens we got it straightened out. Yeah, I always have been, sort of prancing around. Yeah, yeah, I always have. Always—always was interested in a waterbuck," so on. It's fine, fine, fine. He'll run it. Everything's fine.
Session—first session, "Well, I don't really think much of a waterbuck, you know. I never have, you know."
Well, the auditor could be shaken at this one. Says, "What? This person is a waterbuck and doesn't like waterbucks. Well, that doesn't make sense." But he goes on and he runs it.
Few days go by, at the outside with any terminal and the pc says, "This is a lousy terminal, you know. It is just no good! A waterbuck—this is no good! They go around drinking water, drinking water, drinking water. I don't think they're so hot, myself!" He'll finally come up with this as an adjudica­tion.
Now, it sometimes runs through from the beginning and sometimes sets in after several sessions. But at some time or another this one sets in and it's quite normal for them to have no real reaction toward the oppterm. The opp­term is just something that is there. It is—just is. But they have no real emotional reaction. Oh, they've been mad about oppterms; they've been upset about oppterms from time to time. "Yes," they'll tell you, "that's my whole trouble—the oppterm!" and then never amplify it at all. It's the most amazing thing you'll ever listen to. "Yes, that's my whole trouble and that's all the trouble I had been in and, yes, I've been terribly emotional about this opp­term. Tigers have just been the bane of my existence since time immemorial. That's right! Okay!"
You put it in the auditing commands, they never make any comments on it at all. you get some kind of an auditing response like, "Tell me a problem with a—with a tiger (the oppterm)."
"Oh, how to find a place to sleep!"
"Well, how might you solve that problem?" You know, whatever it is. "Thinking about it," or whatever the level is. That's it, that . . .
There's no emotional adjustment over here in the area of the oppterm. But the waterbuck goes up and down.
"All right. Tell me a problem about a waterbuck."
"How to kill one of the goddamn things!"
"All right. How might thinking about it solve that problem?"
"Well, I'd get him thinking about dying and he'd die! Heh!"
"How would a waterbuck—what problem would a waterbuck have?" Whatever it is.
'Um, well, sitting feeling lonely someplace and how to have friends."
You're getting emotional changes on the terminal. So you can—you're running a pc on the wrong terminal, you're going to get—you tend to get a monotone response. You know, no—no real change of emotionalism on the subject of the terminal. All the same kind of problem, all about at the same emotional tone. That's just a tendency. But, the terminal—the oppterm doesn't shift around. But the terminal sure does.
All right. The next item here: If you're running the pc on the oppterm, you get nothing but motivator, motivator, motivator, motivator, motivator, motivator, motivator. You just get motivators, nothing but motivators. They've never done anything. They've just been run over. You're running this guy on a tiger and I tell you, tigers have just been eaten up by waterbucks and they've been shot by waterbucks and they've been scalded by waterbucks and they've been dragged all over by waterbucks and it's just terrible what those waterbucks have done. That waterbuck is just the lousiest brute that you ever heard of and he's specially mean to tigers!
And that's kind of going to be your response level. Now, that isn't any lead-pipe certainty, but it's an indicator if you've got that responses.
All right. Now, why would a pc give you the wrong terminal? Now, let's get into the guts of this situation. Why would the pc give you the wrong terminals? You got the oppterm; he says, "That's my terminal." Well, the pc attempts to withhold his terminal and there is a large secret contained in it all, it all, it all and that's why you find the terminal last. It's best, actually, to find the terminal last. Because the pc tends to withhold his terminal and I'll go into more on that.
Isn't withholding the oppterm, but is withholding his terminal. This is why Sec Checks are so vital as preparatory maneuvers. It tells you at once why you should have Sec Checks, because, what is it? It's giving up with­holds, giving up withholds and if you've got a person who's obsessively withholding, they will cover their terminal.
All right. Now let's go into a long, drawn-out story of what it probably is all about, huh? Well, once upon a time there was a thetan and he—trying to do something or other and had some kind of an activity going He got tired of standing outside certain types of clouds looking at the change of light colors in them. He began to think that was dull and he found there was some­thing wrong in the universe. And that's his terminal. So he up and decided to make that thing right and he decided to eradicate that thar item and he decided to make nothing of it like he was and he decided to abolish that terminal.
Now, there's probably a little prior step to all this. Before he started to abolish it, he probably had a common goal with it. He probably had some association with it of some kind or another that was a very pleasant associa­tion, before he decided it was all bad. That got him pinned in good. But we won't bother with those—the early history of that for the moment. We will just say that he did decide, because man is basically good, that this thing was basically evil. And that he must end it. So he went on a career and he has had a career ever since of ending this terminal.
And, of course, the more overts he got against it, the more he got away from it, the more he snapped into it and he eventually wound up with a complete O/W package and a total interiorization into the terminal.
Now, it works like this: That thing which you have overts against, you must originally have had some basic agreement with. So you were pals with this thing at some time or another, but you weren't it. But you could coexist with it very nicely and then you developed a bunch of overts on it and differ­entiated from it and you committed overts to ensure your differentiation. You began to be worried about being it. you decided this thing was pretty evil, so you developed some overts and you did overts to differentiate, so that you could get away from it.
You decided this was the bad thing to be, you didn't want to be around it anymore and you decided to kick it off and skip it and so you developed overts. You didn't just do this, just accidentally, for the hell of it. you really started developing overts and that made you move away from it. And that, at one time or another, on the past track, was the method how you didn't become something See, that's how you prevented yourself from becoming something. You developed some overts and you withheld from it and that differentiated you from it.
Well, that, of course, was a cure. And as we always have cures for cures for cures, what happened after that is, is after a person had done sufficient overts and sufficient withholds, he snapped into it and became it. And that is the exact cycle: agreement with it, overts and withholds against it to differentiate and when differentiation could no longer be totally established, snap into it and become it. 
Now, that is the condition the pc is in with regard to, apparently, his own terminal. It is the one thing that he has the most overts against on the track. Man, there are times when he has walked up and down Main Street of Hooklaville, carrying banners, saying, "Down with waterbucks! Down with waterbucks! The trouble with this whole civilization is totally assignable, only and entirely to waterbucks! I can prove it to you conclusively. In fact, we've got one in captivity over here." So he goes over and tortures it to death. "Bum, bum thing, these waterbucks!" He's going to fix everything up!
Well, so he's gone on a kind of an in-and-out cycle on this thing. And it depends totally on the individual how often he's gone into it and how often he's come out of it and how often he's decided, "Now, if I—if I pick up a body in Northern Mongolia where there aren't any waterbucks of any kind whatsoever and if I carefully don't think of waterbucks at all, I will be all right. He'll get to that stage, you see. And then the war comes along and somebody drops a magazine out of an airplane and there's a picture of a waterbuck, see? There's all—and suddenly he feels sort of strange; he feels sort of more massy than he did before. But he can't tell what it was. Hadn't anything to do with that, see. It's a totally unknown situation.
See, his withholds against it amount to withholding it. He's trying to keep this thing from operating. So he's withholding it. So he's withholding it from operation in life. He's withholding things about it. He's withholding things against it. He's doing overts to it. He's differentiating from it. And eventually he gets to a point where he withholds it and he doesn't even remember it and is it, all the time. Some kind of a horror story, you know. You could—this thetan has finally wound up—the one thing in the universe he wanted nothing to do with, he is. Quite a game.
So, anyway, at the other end of the spout, you ask him for this thing. One of his first reactions may be to withhold it. So "I'm a tiger. Us tigers, us very noble tigers, who are so calm and serene and who are always right." Well, now, why does he do this? The oppterm is actually the ally of the thetan in the destruction of the terminal and that's what makes the package look so dizzy. He is not the oppterm, but he and the oppterm, at one time or another were pals. But then because he's used the oppterm to destroy the terminal— see, he's used the tiger to destroy the waterbuck so often he also has trouble with tigers now. So he has trouble with waterbucks and tigers now, when you pick him up, see?
But him and tigers have tried like mad to destroy waterbucks and he is right in there pitching on the subject of tigers. He'd hate to see tigers wiped out because they really do a nice job of destroying waterbucks. You let a nice—li lot of tigers loose and they'll destroy an awful lot of waterbucks. But at the same time he's saying, "Waterbucks should be protected from tigers," because he is a waterbuck. So what a dizzy situation. 
Now, that dizziness of that situation is why it makes it difficult for you to pick out the waterbucks from the tigers. But, of course, the oppterm is the pc's strongest ally for the destruction of the terminal. And don't think at any time the pc has any other goal than the destruction of the terminal. The terminal, however, has so overwhelmed him that some of its goals and think­ingness towards survival have overwhelmed his desire to destroy it so he goes on a flicker-flicker.
He comes in for a session, "Well, let's wipe this waterbuck out this ses­sion, you know? Rroww! Let's get in there at it. Let's damn waterbucks, and so forth. Let's get in there, and square it around, and so forth!"
He comes in the next session, "Us waterbucks, boy we've gotta get those tigers. It's pretty sad, but we've gotta get them."
The last thing in the world the pc will do is wipe out the oppterm. So you're just in for the—it won't necessarily damage the pc. It'll blow his head off and ruin his eyesight and a few things like this temporarily and upset him and so on, but the main thing you're doing is just wasting auditing. Because he isn't going to do anything to the tiger. He isn't going to do a thing to the tiger!
Tiger is going to stay right there. When you finally get the Goals Prob­lem Mass all torn apart, that tiger is going to be in the same state he was in before you started auditing a waterbuck, which is quite remarkable. In spite of all the questions you have about tigers in your command sheets, just real­ize that those questions are going exactly no place except to straighten out waterbucks. That's the only reason you brought the tiger in there at all, is to straighten out waterbucks.
Now, if you know that anatomy of the package, it'll make more sense to you about all this. But him and the oppterm is really pals. They're bosom buddies. In spite of how he natters about it.
You can take—take a period in his life—this pc's life—or her life, ten years ago and you'll find her in a tremendous amount of trouble with tigers. Tigers were offensive. Tigers were upsetting, ten years ago. They were very upsetting They kept picking on her. Always motivators. Tigers picked on her. Tigers upset her ten years ago.
Yes, she's very happy to have run this terminal, tigers. Because they were so upsetting All during her early career tigers, day and night, nag, nag, nag If it hadn't been for tigers—if it hadn't been for tigers!—she'd amount to something today. "See these long scratches? Look at that. Look at that. Look at that, see? Now, how could I have won the Miss America Beauty Contest with these long scratches? Hm? Answer me that!"
You're talking to a hundred percent waterbuck. That's all. You're not talking to the pc.
Next day the pc has kind of gotten up a little bit, you see. Get an entirely different story about this thing "Damn those waterbucks!" And we don't hear anything about tigers at all, see. Never hear a word about it.
So, they oscillate between being their terminal and damning their termi­nal. And, of course, while they're being their terminal, they're against anything that is against that terminal. And while being themselves, they are against the terminal. Now, you have to sort this out, that's—it's all, because that's it. You're trying really, on the sheet—the 3D form—apparently to find the opposition terminal. And if you haven't got the reactive mind straight and what this is all about straight, you of course will think you're asking for the opposition terminal to the pc. See, that's a vastly different thing.
The opposition terminal to the pc is the pc's terminal. No, the opposition terminal that you want to get hold of is merely the opposition to the pc's terminal. The pc is hardly there at all. But the pc has a long history of the destruction of waterbucks. And man, can the pc find problems and incidents on the subject of waterbucks and let me tell you, they just run out of answers on the subject of tigers, just truths. 
"Problem with a tiger? Well, problem with a tiger—find a place to sleep. All right, that's good. Yeah." They'd think about it, "That's right. Good. Well, problem with a tiger, well, um—how to rest more." They'd think about it, "Yeah, that's the answer."
That's the way this foolishness would run, see? But you could actually, on the 7 December commands, while running it, listening to the pc's answers, eventually decide, "Hey, wait a minute. I've got this thing all backwards!" You could eventually come a cropper, straight into it. Because you've got pc versus the oppterm and pc versus the term all in there.
And the pc says, "Ohh, uh—problem about a waterbuck, uhn-uh-duh— waterbuck. Uh—how to knock one off a cliff. Yeah. You get him to thinking about something else. That's right, and he wouldn't watch where he's going, and go off the cliff. Ah, yes! Yes! Heh-heh-heh-heh-heh! That's nice! Splash!
"That's very nice, that's good, all right. All right. Now, I'm talking about a tiger. Well, how to pare his nails. All right, good. And he'd—you'd get him thinking about his appearance, and that'd make him pare his nails. That's right.
"All right. Now, a problem about a waterbuck. Problem about a waterbuck, problem about a waterbuck. Well, uhm—how to dry waterbuck meat. Yeah, how to dry waterbuck meat, yeah . . . You get some very bright man thinking about it and he'd figure out a way to do it! Yeah, I got that one, all right! Now, problem about a tiger. Well, how to uh—how many stripes he has."
And you listen to this and you'll realize that you're looking over at some. . . This is a vast, calm vista that has nothing to do with the pc. The oppterm is some vast vista, has nothing to do with the pc. But every once in a while the pc will give you a nice answer like, "Problem about a waterbuck? Well, how to just get him eaten alive by tigers, you see?" Because that's actually what he's been trying to do for trillennia. He's been putting up this waterbuck and saying, "Tigers! Any tigers? Any tigers? Here! Waterbucks! Look! Waterbucks!" You wonder why deer manage to grow white tails that make themselves very visible across the landscape. Well, they're a 3D package, too.
Well, now this gives you—as another aside, as part of the story—it gives you a very, very interesting view of humanity. All of the people they natter about are their best friends and they're trying to destroy themselves. And that is not a cynical, but quite accurate picture of man.
Why is it that all you have to do is put up a recruiting poster and have just millions of men swarm in for no pay, volunteering to go up against electronic cannon, dive off to other planets, plunge to the bottom of the sea? Why? Why? At no pay, so on. Should tell you, should tell you a lot. It has puzzled greater men than we, because Edward Gibbon says, "Courage must be the cheapest possible commodity in human values, because it's so easily hired in such vast armies, so quickly." Well, that's a paraphrase. It—he actually missed the boat. He didn't even get down—he not only didn't drive onto the dock, he didn't even get down near the pier. There wasn't even water, where he was! Had nothing to do with courage.
It had to do totally with self-destruction. You advertise a war, all the waterbucks take those waterbucks up and put them in uniform and take them right over there and give them a firing machine gun someplace. They'll just stick that waterbuck up and they'll say, "Well, here I am, dying in the service of my country. Well, they're missing me! I may have to move over there."
A thetan is basically good. This is a good action which he has under­taken. All the way down the track this was a good action. He's been trying to rid the world of these lice! He actually has been working at it very hard and he should get a medal.
But, there it is. There it is. That's man. Not circa now; it's circa then. And back then and back then and back then and back then. He's always been operating this way. Guy joins up—you can always—you can always spot this.
Well, you can spot things like this about men, that—telling what they're doing and so forth. Person's on post. First few days there on post they look all right. And after a few days they start looking sort of dazed and after a few days start developing eye difficulties and after a few days more they—a little cough in the chest, so forth, hharrmm! After they've been on the job three or four months they look like something's been parting their hair with a bullet, you know? They've been hired, see, by their opposition terminal while being their terminal. But occasionally they're their terminal, so they're on the side of the opposition terminal, against themselves. You follow this out?
They're on the side of the oppterm. See, what they did was join up and are continuously confronted by their opposition terminal. See, that's the cor­poration. Let's say they got a job in a corporation; their oppterm, maybe is corporations, big businesses, see. So while they're there, they turn the winds of space on themselves, you see. They've just got it turned on to a high roar and at the same time they, of course, had joined the corporation in order to destroy whatever terminal they are being. So, while they're being the termi­nal, they are fantastically destructive to the corporation except on the end of the week, at which time they are the corporation being fantastically destruc­tive to terminals—to their own terminals, see.
So much so—so much so that you possibly could go into some large cor­poration, call in a large number of employees, look at those that look rather flat—whistle up those that look pretty flat—and say, "Would you like a reduc­tion in wages?" "We'll sign a contract by which we guarantee to reduce your wages and in two and a half years you will go broke." And those people would sign it. And they wouldn't sign, "Now we're going to pay you ten thousand pounds a year and so forth." They wouldn't sign that contract. They'd sign the other one.
Everybody thinks wages are striking for—I mean, unions are striking for higher wages and shorter hours. No, unions are striking in an effort to wipe out working men and if you give them a good opportunity they could wipe out working men. you wouldn't have a sane employment union, organi­zational, structural picture at any time, ever, until you got all the 3Ds out of all the employees and you got it all straight. And then all of a sudden, why, it'd all straighten out and it'd all run all right.
Up to that time it's going to be this weird one of this fellow who has every reason in the world—you keep looking at it this way—you say, "But he's got every reason in the world to do his job and mind his nose—keep his nose clean and mind his own business, and so forth. He's got every reason in the world to do this and every reason in the world why he shouldn't go in the opposite direction. Yet there he is in the opposite direction.
You say to people, "Now, take this crosswalk with the white lines on it. Now, you always go across the street at this white line." And then they're going to walk down the street half a block and go across where there are no white lines, even though it's out of their road. you stand and watch a white-line area sometime. You'll see people pass by the white line and go down the street, about a quarter of a block or half a block and wait until the traffic is good and heavy and then without looking to the right or left, cross at a slow walk to the other side. They got a waterbuck! They're going to say, "Who wants to hit him?"
And it's always such a shock to the thetan to find out that it hurts them. See, this is an awful shock to them—that they didn't kill a waterbuck, they killed themselves. This is always the surprise. If you catch a failed suicide, he is always in a state of fantastic surprise.
You get a fellow who almost made it, you know and you got him just by the last beam as he was departing from the body and stuffed him back in his head again or something of this sort and you'll have somebody who said, "But why did I commit suicide?" you know and "Life is so wonderful and so beautiful and so forth," and they go through some kind of resurgence of some kind or another. Well, of course, what they found out is that they didn't kill their terminal, they killed themselves and this was a vast shock to them. They're always getting shocked this way and always getting upset this way.
But anybody who has a terminal has been trying to get rid of this terminal for a very long time. And you can say that his basic dedication and mission on the whole track was to dispose of the thing which you're going to run as his terminal.
And, of course, if you get the terminal, he'll cooperate like mad. And if you run the oppterm—if you run the oppterm, you're not going to get cooperation, you're not not going to get cooperation. They're just not going to, not, not. Why, what—what's this? Well, it's all right. He'll ride along He feels safer on that side.
So there's every reason in the world a thetan would give you the wrong item. But let's go back and look at what was true about it and we find out that the oppterm is usually the high—high on the Tone Scale (higher than the terminal), that when run, the terminal—if the pc is run on the terminal it turns on somatics. The Sec Check responses always agree with the terminal, not the oppterm. The pc shows a reality and a like and a dislike and a disgust and a this or a that or the other thing—he's got some misemotional connotation with regard to his terminal. And when you run the oppterm, you get the winds of space. You get no real somatics; you just get a discomfort. You get a kind of a disappearance of the pc. Of course, it's the—it's the thing which is versus the terminal, so then its mission is to make the terminal disappear. So of course, you do get a kind of a disappearance of the mass and everything else, if you're running on the wrong side.
And if you run the oppterm as the pc's terminal by mistake, they give you just motivator, motivator, motivator. "Look at what those waterbucks did to us. Look at what those waterbucks did to us tigers, man!"
Now, you cannot decide on the basis of what you think is good or bad, because the pc may have entirely different ideas on the subject. What you think is good or bad has nothing to do with it. This pc has a terminal called "a bum." So there are two items here. one is "a bum" and the other one is "a saint." And you say immediately, "Well, naturally, the pc would dislike a bum more than he would dislike a saint, so therefore, by the quality of the item, the pc's terminal is 'bum'." 
Oh, man, that just does not work. If you put "a bum" and "a saint" and "you" down on the Tone Scale and "a saint" was the pc's terminal, you would be absolutely fascinated at how saints will solve problems. They solve them by chicanery, treachery, by knifing people . . . They're really characters, man, these saints. Huh! But a bum—he's nice, he's sweet, he never gets in any­body's road, he never bothers anybody. That'd be the kind of a weird—it just—it just doesn't add up, see.
So it isn't the quality of the item and I think, basically, most of your trouble comes, perhaps, from deciding that you can decide which this pc is. Is he a bum or is he a saint? Is he a waterbuck or is he a tiger? Because he's got the attributes of both. That's what makes it all so goddarn, confoundedly confusing
See, he's in—been in the middle of this fight so long that he's allied himself to the oppterm and he's been against the oppterm and he's always been the terminal, but he's sometimes been for the terminal and sometimes against it. He's just all mixed up, see?
So, the goal that you get for the pc could turn out to be the opposition goal and the pc's terminal could turn out to be the opposition terminal and the pc's modifier turns out to be the modifier for the opposition goal. And it's just all thu-thu-thu. So getting a 3D package doesn't mean that you've got a straight 3D that you can run at all. you now have to set that 3D up and set it together and you have to use certain adjudications by which to do this.
Now, you are not going to hurt a pc by running the factual and true 3D package on the 7 December command series. Why? If you look it over very carefully, you'll find out there's as much oppterm in it as there is term. It'll be a little upsetting to the pc and so on, but it will run. It will run.
And that could fool you, too. That could fool you, too. Because it won't run anywhere near as well as if you have it in the right direction. But it's not going to damage the pc. You're going to get something done. You're going to get something done, one way or the other, because you've got that command package, which is designed to take care of this error.
But, because the command package is designed to take care of the error, you can of course make an error. You could be fooled, because it's running well, into believing you've got it right and sooner or later it's going to be all wrong And it just isn't going to run right and the pc isn't going to make good gains and so forth. Now, you can run the 7 December 1961 3D commands and actually wind up with all of the needle phenomena that you wind up with, with the proper terminal, while running the oppterm. You can run the opp­term as the pc's terminal and you can have the tone arm go up stick and so on. So there's nothing to adjudicate on the meter. It'll run the same way. But it won't do much for the pc. It won't do as much for the pc, not by a long ways. So it's a good thing to sort it out.
Now, in the first place, a pc who is running wrong-way-to is running under a misconception and sooner or later they're going to find out that they are telling themselves lies. And it's the way they're lying to themselves that damages them, rather than the commands. They keep saying to themselves, "Well, us tigers—us tigers—and them waterbucks—and us nice tigers—and those waterbucks . . ." And this is the other thing that is wrong: You get the wrong level chains.
Let me tell you something about wrong levels. If you were to carelessly jump a level and without getting levels in sequence, if you were just suddenly—skip a level and run something else, you know and just make up your mind, suddenly, without assessing it, that the pc's trouble was "drainage." And you say, "How might drainage solve that problem?" It doesn't register on the meter or anything else. you run the pc on this for a little while and the pc starts getting pretty upset. It will turn on the pc's psycho­somatics, as opposed to the somatics. If you run the wrong level on the pc, you turn on the psychosomatics of the pc. Now, what is a psychosomatic? That is a chronic pain which amounts to a physical illness with which the pc has been afflicted for a very long time. They turn on and they don't turn off. Now, that's what happens when you run the wrong level.
So let's say we just picked it out of our head and said, "Drainage." And this pc is—has had a peculiarity—they've had a susceptibility to sties and as we run this, they're going to get sties. They're going to get sties. That's all there is to it. So if you run the oppterm, you turn on the psychosomatics of the pc. you tend to turn on the psychosomatics of the pc—you won't necessarily—because you're running wrong levels. You see, you're assessing the oppterm and not assessing the terminal and the terminal goes by a differ­ent series of levels.
If you don't believe this, take your pc at any given moment and assess him on the Prehav Scale or some little section of the Prehav Scale. Assess him on the terminal and then assess the oppterm—don't use it—and you'll find out it'll come out an entirely different level. So you can run wrong levels doing this.
Now, running the terminal doesn't turn on a psychosomatic, which is a chronic pain which amounts to an illness or a rough thing with the pc that the pc has always been afflicted with. That isn't what does that. you get another thing here; you get another thing. You get brand-new somatics. And if the pc continually gets brand-new somatics and the somatic picture is dif­ferent and the things the pc has never had before are turning on and the chronic somatics may be flickering in and out, but aren't necessarily getting very much concentration, then you're running the right levels and you're run­ning the right terminal. But it's—the only thing that would be upsetting to the pc is if you run the oppterm on the 7 December 1961 commands, you of course are running the wrong levels on the pc, because it's—it has entirely different assessment value.
It isn't that it's going to kill the pc but it's not going to make very much fast response. You get a pc; this pc is always, always, always . . .
Oh, I'll give you a good one: The pc years ago got rid of their terror stomach. Got it early auditing, did a good job, no terror stomach and they haven't had a terror stomach for years. That's one thing that they're cheerful and happy about. And you're busy—you're busily happily running the termi­nal, see. You're running the terminal. They haven't been bothered with this for years, see. And you run the wrong level, see. you just pick out "drainage" at will, see. Nothing with any response; it shouldn't have come up at this time; you just, "They're going to run 'drainage'."
And the pc goes for this because, you see, "drainage"—that explains a great deal to them. That's where you got it off of; the pc's been selling you "drainage," you see. And you run this and their terror stomach comes on. They say, "But I got rid of this years ago!" Mind you, now, you're running the terminal and everything fine. You're just running the wrong level. A terror stomach comes on and till you go back and get the right level and bring it on up to date, the terror stomach tends to stay on and then the terror stomach fades out and washes away. you see that is an experimental action. That's an experimental action.
All right, so therefore, running the oppterm, of course you're getting the chronic somatics on but you're not getting new somatics on.
Now we're running the terminal and we're running it by proper level. The pc remembers having had a neckache, when they were sixteen and haven't had much of a neckache since. And now they've got a neckache which is maybe in that place and maybe in a different place, but it's one awful, horrible neckache. And they don't remember having a neckache exactly like that neckache. And it turns on and it's much stronger and it's much harder than they ever had a neckache on before. And before you have a chance to sympathize with them very much, why, it's all changed. You ask them toward the end of the session, "How's your neckache?"
And they say, "Neckache? What neckache? Oh, oh, what neckache?"
"Well, just that neckache that you had early in . . ."
"Oh, that one! Well, that wasn't anything. God, you should feel this backache!"
You're getting a changing somatic pattern. So running the oppterm you find the somatics and they stay on, the same, session after session after session or intensify or increase. And running the terminal, you get a shift, shift, shift, shift. Now, you can normally expect the somatics to materialize inside the pcs' bodies and at the back of the pc's body—particularly at the back of the pc's body—in the back of the neck, in the back of the head and inside the head and inside the stomach and all that. you can expect somatics to materialize in the most unlikely places. That's running the terminal.
And running the opposition terminal, you tend to get fixed somatics. It's on—you only get the fixed somatic because you're running the levels out of sequence. That's the only reason I'm stressing running levels out of sequence. It isn't that you're going to find a bunch of bum levels for the pc. you can— you can get a level that's a little bit corny or a little bit off, or something like that, and your pc isn't going to get into any trouble on it. It's picking out something like, "I know what's the matter with this pc! 'Drainage'!" You know? And you run "drainage." "Yeah, that's what's the matter with the pc." That's absolutely right! That is so true! Only it belonged twenty levels up the line, and you picked it now. See, you've jumped it wildly out of sequence and it'll turn on the pc's chronic somatics, the like of which you never heard of!
And if it's a good level—it really applies to the terminal that you're running, you see—the oppterm or the terminal—really applies, if it's a good level . . . This is very logical! Boy, it'll pull that Goals Problem Mass just—oh, man it'll just rip it up, and . . . Marvelous! You know? Leave the pc sitting in somatics that then don't move. Until you catch up with them with proper assessments.
So you've unnecessarily put your pc in misery for a couple of more weeks than you should have. That's what happens when you run an out-of-sequence level and that's what happens when you run the oppterm. And that's all that happens when you run the oppterm.
Now, what I've been talking to you about is in the basis and state of flux. A lot of the—this material however was based on very good observation and I give it to you apologetically only for this reason: Is I have not had time or the data to codify you up a perfect card which, when you put the pointing arrow to zero, it says down at the bottom, "waterbuck, terminal; tiger, oppterm." And, I haven't been able to do that. But I have, I think you will see, accumulated an awful lot of indicators which can serve you very, very well.
They are quite true indicators. But you have to know the story of this and you have to know it very well. you have to know what the thetan was doing and how the thetan got into this horrible mess. This thetan may be sitting there, telling you—trying to be proud about it all—but telling you, "Well, I've been a waterbuck for a long time. And us waterbuck, we're really, really quite the thing, you know, us waterbuck are. Except sometimes. Uh—and uh—I seem to keep remembering shooting a waterbuck one time or another down in South Africa. I mean, we kept shooting waterbuck and yeah, we just slaughtered waterbuck all over the place. Yeah, the river was just running with waterbuck. Oh, waterbuck. Boy, there were a lot of dead ones, see? There . . . Shameful, isn't it?"
You have to realize that he's of a mixed mind. That he must preserve this thing because he's been overwhelmed by—because of his overts, and he must get rid of this thing and his attention is so confoundedly fixed on it that he isn't going to get his attention on much of anything else. Not in life. His thinkingness and educational restrictions, by the way, are all contained in the terminal.
You say, "What—what skills—what skills are you mainly—how—what skills do you really consider yourself good at?" And this is another test, by the way. I just happened to think of this one. you could say, "What skills are you really good at and what can you really do? And how does that compare to waterbuck, the terminal?"
And "Uh—let me see. A tiger. What skills could you really do with a tiger? Well, I don't like to spring. Don't have too much to do with springing and so on. I don't like red meat, I never eat any red meat, as a matter of fact. Um, and so on. Don't uh—I sure don't like sleeping in wet woods. No, I've never been able to do that. And springing—in high school, the broad jump, I never—just could never pass the broad jump. I just never could pass the broad jump, and so on. Yeah, just don't think I'd have too much to do with tigers. But I can swim. I swim very well. And I'm pretty good at dodging. Dodge extremely well, yes. Remember playing football. Used—that was what I was really good at—dodging! Yeah, I was really good at dodging And swimming, swimming. Yes, I was captain of the swimming team. Uh—yes, as a matter of fact got the state-wide medal, till I broke my neck, so forth."
It'll be that kind of a story. His skill pattern will also fit with his terminal and will not fit with his oppterm. You say, "Well, what kind of a tiger would you make?"
"Me? Tiger? That's a new thought. Oh, well yes! I'd make a very good tiger! Always have been very, very good as a tiger!" Doesn't mean anything at all.
So the only real danger you're running is the running of the wrong level and the only thing that will do is give you another package that you'll have to run at some time or another on the other level. So it is not killing the pc.
Now, you think it might become clear on auditing. But it very often doesn't. Now, how long does the pc dramatize his terminal during a run? How long can you expect a pc to be dramatizing his terminal or his oppterm or his goal or his oppterm or his oppgoal, or something like that? Well, I can't give you any figures, but actually, it's—it's a couple, three weeks of auditing, anyway. Auditing on levels. They'll come up with—because, what the devil, you've got the whole educational pattern of the pc, the whole experiential pattern of the pc, and it's all composed of these various factors. So they'll keep manifesting themselves.
But the pc will try to withhold his terminal as you're auditing him and that's what makes your rudiments go out. The pc will become very sensible during a run of—all of a sudden, "Oh, wait a minute. That's a skill of a waterbuck. I'd better not do it. See, I'm really not a waterbuck." And the visible withhold of the waterbuck comes up and makes the pc stack up with­holds and then the thing won't read. you won't get a read on the thing All the pc's doing is withholding his terminal. Because that's all the pc has been doing for trillennia, is trying to withhold this terminal from action.
If this pc could go off in a corner someplace and be absolutely sure that never thereafter would a waterbuck ever breathe or jump on Earth, the pc would probably sit there for millennia, perfectly happy in accomplishment of having utterly restrained this waterbuck from ever functioning again and his mission would have been totally complete. He wouldn't be happy sitting in the corner, but his concept of good and his duty and that sort of thing is suffi­ciently high that that is exactly what he would do. He'd feel very self-satisfied about the whole thing—withholding his terminal.
I would say offhand that the terminal is not necessarily harder to get than the opposition terminal, but the terminal is more chronically withheld. You're liable to find the pc in the present life associating with his oppterm on a friendly, scratch-the-eyes-out basis—actually very closely associating with his oppterm, but not associating with his terminal. You won't find him very often associating with his terminal. Kind of wanting to be his terminal, had goals to be the terminal and so forth. But if any—anyone stood up—he—he'd be more likely, if the waterbuck walked in the room, you know, he'd say, "Well, I guess I'll be going now. Guess I'll be going now. Didn't realize you had such low taste,"—to the hostess, you see. Sort of to himself. "I didn't realize you associated with criminals of this particular type—waterbucks."
No association with the terminal. Association with the oppterm. Close association with the oppterm. Intimate. Always swinging into its perimeter. Hate like hell to be there, too, the whole time. Horrible, you know. That's something—something we wouldn't associate with if we possibly could help it, so we associate with it all the time. But actively not really associating as a general rule with the actual terminal. Actual terminal is something else and it is over there and we don't have too much to do with that kind of person, do we?
If the pc had children, you can just hear the pc say, "Well now, that's fine, but let's not go off in the direction of studying waterbuckery. For myself, of course, I could—if I had to, I could study waterbuckery. I could, and so forth. I've, as a matter of fact, often been active in that particular field. But not—not you children. Not you children, no. That's for us hardened sinners. That's for something else. But, of course, I never would be one, you under­stand that!"
Those are the general attitudes and I hope—I hope in some way that helps you sort some pcs out. Maybe we'll have a little indicator that we'll pin on the side of the E-Meter someday and you feed the terminal in on a slip of paper and it instantly comes up—if it's blue—if it comes out blue, it is cor­rect and if it comes out red, it is incorrect or something of that sort. We don't happen to have that gimmick right now, we have to depend on you and your good sense.
If your pc is running painfully, you are probably right. If your pc is good and in pain, and is miserable, it's terrible, and the tone arm is going up and hitting, clank and so forth, it's probably all right. On the other hand, if the pc is just getting sort of invisible and getting nowhere and they don't have any somatics, except their chronic somatic of the pain in the end of their ear, or something is now on much harder than it's ever been on before and they've had that pain for a long time, and so on, and they just . . . And they're run­ning lots of motivator, motivator and so on. Well, with the data I'm giving you today, you should actually be able to look at your pc during a run or after a run or something like that and be able to tell whether the pc is running the right terminal or the wrong one.
But right now, I tell you, it's in the lap of the gods and the judgment of auditors.
Thank you.

