EXPECTANCY OF 3D

A lecture given on 
7 December 1961



Is there a heater on there? All right.
How are you today?
Audience: Fine.
Still getting in practice for the Washington congress? Now, what – what’s the date? Seventh?
Audience: Seventh.
It’s the seventh. All right. And I think you just had a sheet handed out here. Well, now, you’ve had an experimental sheet handed to you. There have never been any runs on this sheet. It is simply handed to you as a trick pattern of command structure. It has to be tested. Maybe one or two of you will be run on it. But there’s nothing very deadly about it. But let me point out to you here that you have an opportunity to clear with the pc, problem, situation, difficulty, confusion, MEST trouble (whatever it is), and what he considers the solution is – solve, made okay, cured, finished, ended, “that’s-that-ed” or whatever he considers the thing is, you see.
And then you’ve got a thirty command which is fifteen bracket. Thirty commands with fifteen brackets, which is pretty good because it covers just about everything, and so on.
Now you’ll find that some pcs will hang up a little bit if you don’t have “others” in the run and so forth. This is a very comprehensive coverage of this particular thing.
And I would say offhand that if you could run it with “confusion,” it probably would run faster than with “problem” on quite a few people. But this gives you an opportunity to clear it all up.
This is no – let me point out to you, this is no change. There isn’t any change here. This just gives you – this is all possible elements that you could run on 3D commands with all – all effective brackets. There’s even “you and you” in there. There’s a bracket in there, “Tell me a problem you have had with you.” That’s for those people amongst us who have valences.
All right. Well, that’s just a – it’s just a tricky command sheet. I handed it out to you more or less for your curiosity more than anything else. And yet we will run it, and probably do something with it. But possibly, it’ll be refined before it is generally issued. I thought you might like to be on the upper end of the assembly line for a moment. Okay?
Audience: Thank you.
Well, I’ve practiced enough for the Washington congress, so I’ll sit down. 
This is 7 Dec., still a nautical month, and we have the Saint Hill Special Briefing Course, and we have some people who – that look wonderful and some people who look horrible.
I’m going to make to you just a few random comments today. I haven’t really very much to talk to you about. You’re all doing perfectly. There’s no possible improvement that could be made either on your cases or your audit­ing. You will recognize that. Except in a few instances. A few instances your auditing could be improved, and in a few instances your cases could be improved, you see. But on the whole you’re all perfect except “you.”
All right. You’re not getting – sitting in the – way down in the bull pit – you might say, with a pc, you’re not getting a broad view of the working of 3D, and I might tell you something about this.
You’re getting a one-pc view of it, and your coffee-shop comments. And that’s – that’s a little different. So what are the expectancies of the thing? And I’d better give you some idea of the expectancies of what would happen with a pc on 3D. And I’ll just take one through from start. Okay?
All right. These are broad expectancies, and these expectancies have been routinely borne out. When these are not borne out, there is – it’s nothing. It’s – the assessment is wrong or something is goofy. When you don’t run into the phenomena which I’m going to list to you here, why, something is wrong
All right. This person staggers in, see, and hits both sides of the door and sits down to get audited. And we put him on the E-Meter, and we say, “Well, what were – what did you have to eat for breakfast.”
And he says, “What breakfast?”
And you say, “This morning.”
He says, “What – what this morning?” that sort of thing.
Well, he is not in a position to be audited with an assessment on 3D. You wouldn’t assess that person.
You ask this person various questions about life in general, and the person seems to have a tremendous amount of worry in present time. I’ve already told you that present time – an elephant stepping on your toe here and now, even your little toe, is far more important to you than an elephant who squashed your whole body a few million years ago. You – you recognize this, see.
A peanut which you are not able to procure right now is far more impor­tant than an empire which you failed to secure several trillenia ago. Let me point this out to you. The havingness – the further it goes back on the track, why, the more unlikely it seems. And the importances of a case must be concen­trated, to some degree, at least over this lifetime, and can’t be concentrated in the last three minutes of life.
Now, if you find a case that the rudiments are very hard to keep in on, you’re finding a person whose life is a constant problem. Unless you can do something for this, it isn’t likely you will ever get his attention off this con­stant immediacy onto what might have caused the immediacy. He’s not so much interested in what caused him to go broke. He’s interested in the fact that he hasn’t got a sou.
Well, that he hasn’t got a sou is what’s worrying him, and that the causes of his decline and going broke are the least possible interest to him. The fact of the matter is he’s broke, and this is all he can concentrate on, you see. There he sits a mental bankrupt, and he hasn’t any – any margin on which to operate at all.
In other words, his mind cannot play even easily over this lifetime. You see, he sits there and he says, “Well, when I go home this is going to happen, and when I come back this is going to happen, and then – then I’ll go, and so on. I wonder what I’m going to do and-and-you know, it’s terrible, and isn’t life horrible right here and now?”
Well, you try to get him a split instant off of “now” and of course, he has to at least have the idea of going “then” somewhat before you can get an assessment, even though the assessment is in right here and now. You under­stand that?
He – he doesn’t, however, appreciate that the assessment is in here and now. He would much more easily have you take the elephant off of his little toe than to remove the empire off of his back, you see, because he’s not very aware of this empire that’s off – on his back. But he sure is aware of that elephant that’s stepping on his toe, you see? He’s very aware of that.
So, this person is not in an assessable state because his concentration is, well, on the auditor: “Is this fellow going to do me in? Isn’t he going to do me in? I don’t know. I was audited by somebody out in California one time, and that’s enough for anybody. Uh… God, isn’t that terrible, and is he going to fix me up or isn’t he, or – or is he really? Or is he just in it for the money or is there anything to Scientology? We don’t know there is anything, and uh-yuh­rr-uh-rrr” – automaticity, automaticity, automaticity, automaticity.
And he’s saying, “Well, I don’t know whether I’ll go home or not or whether I’ve got any money and car fare or whether I should take the bus or whether I should take the car. I wonder if I should buy a car and… uh-nah­nah-na and so on. Should I eat breakfast? Should I have steak for dinner? Or shouldn’t I? No, it’s very expensive. No, I shouldn’t have steak for dinner because I might have… Better have beans for dinner. Uh… so forth. I wonder what they’ll think if I do have beans for dinner. I wonder what bean…” And that – that’s just somebody with the rudiments out, see.
Well, the process of getting rudiments in can be begun at that point. And if you regard it no more than just getting the rudiments in, you’ll see what we’re talking about, because it may take seventy-five hours to get the rudiments in.
All right. From that point of natter, natter, present time elephant on my toe, don’t know what I’m going to do – from that point for the next seventy-five hours he gradually gets back to a point where he can look at this lifetime, where he can sit in the auditing room, where he can look at the auditor, and keep his mouth shut while you’re reading a list to him.
Now, in other words, you’re – you’re into a condition here where the indi­vidual can be fairly relaxed in a session, and therefore you can get the information that you want for an assessment.
So that is the usual condition of a person as he moves into the perimeter of auditing. In other words, he doesn’t know, and it’s this way. And then grad­ually, over a period of time, particularly if you are doing something very effective, like Sec Checking, Problems Intensive, racking around one way or the other, curing up his bad memory, anything you can think of that makes him easier, gets the rudiments in, gets some of his overts off, gets him into communication with the auditor. During that whole period of time, you should be getting a more and more responsive meter.
Now if you read it always that the meter action should be loosening up, you are going to make a mistake. Because a meter action can get – get looser and tighter, and so forth, somewhat disassociated from the response of the pc’s mind on the meter.
There’s a difference there. The pc comes in feeling very relaxed and – physically – and feels very relaxed physically and actually does get a fairly decent dial drop, see. Feels pretty good. Well, actually, it doesn’t really not follow, and it doesn’t really follow that his mental response to your questions is better. It doesn’t immediately follow.
The response of the meter to the question is not necessarily independent of this other, but it is itself – it is itself. How much is the person reacting. Now, I’ll – let’s give you an idea. I might just have been auditing this person, and I straightened them up, and they feel fairly comfortable, and they’ve got a dial drop on the can squeeze, you see. And the following morning an HPA student from a Central Organization fumbles with the meter and asks him a few questions, and so on. He’ll get a dial drop. He won’t get any response. You get the difference here?
He’ll – he’ll still get the dial drop, but he says, “This is different than what happened to me yesterday,” and he’s, of course, got a present time problem. He – he says, “I don’t know,” and “I – I’m not sure,” and “What is this all about?” And he’s thinking about this, and the meter response to the auditor is the factor there which doesn’t necessarily coordinate with the drop of the can squeeze. Do you follow that?
In other words, your meter might be responding if somebody were making it respond or if the pc accepted who was making it respond.
Now, your job in the first seventy-five hours is getting the pc to accept the meter responding, see? He – he accepts your communication. He feels that it’s better – it’s – it’s all right to be audited by you.
Now, this is a hard bridge for an auditor to cover during that particular period, and it’s something that you should put your mind to. This – this is something that you should know as – as an auditor.
Yes, you can goof up. Yes, you can make mistakes, but your auditing – even the worst auditor in this unit at the present moment, perhaps with one or two exceptions – is better than most of the auditors in – practically all the auditors in 1954. See, there’s – there’s – here’s a difference of auditing here.
We can’t go out on the basis entirely that it is quality of auditing. Let us assume that the auditor does a halfway interested, technically correct job on the pc.
All right. Now, let’s just take auditor A who is doing a halfway interested, technically correct, more or less, job on the pc, you see. He’s not doing a perfect job. He’s not doing an imperfect job.
All right. We have him, in rotation, audit fifteen pcs taken from different strata. This is the same auditor. And then without allowing those pcs – without allowing auditor A to do any advertising, without allowing him to tell them how he is a good auditor or any propagandizing at all – we take these pcs, and without permitting them to talk together, we get each one’s opinion of this auditor. We’re going to get fifteen different qualities. Going to get fifteen different opinions of the same auditor. And if these people are unaudited people by and large, you’re going to get fifteen bank expressions to something that had nothing to do with the auditor.
Auditor was wearing a yellow dress. All right. Very good. Pc number one likes yellow, so it’s a good auditor. Pc number two doesn’t like yellow, so it must be a bad auditor. And it’ll be something as oddball as that.
During the first seventy-five hours, you should actually not take to heart any opinion the pc has of your auditing. You should not take it to heart at all. Because it has nothing to do with observation. Nothing to do with it at all. It’s just his various reactivities reacting. And I’ve noticed you, as auditors, worrying far too much about what the pc thought of you in the early stages of your auditing of the pc. Well, the reason you’re worried about it is because your rudiments aren’t in.
Well, your rudiments wouldn’t be in. It wouldn’t matter what you did or if you had changed the color of your hair and wore a funny nose, you’d have the same opinion exactly on the part of the pc of your auditing. And if the pc… Well, let me give you a better example.
Did any of you ever have your parents get acquainted with you? No, you see. Well, this had very little to do with you, but had a great deal to do with your parents’ ability to observe. They didn’t observe very deeply, and so they didn’t know you very well. That’s about the way that adds up.
The pc’s ability to observe during that first seventy-five hours of getting straightened up is negligible. His powers of obnosis stink. He could go down the street, and you ask him – I’m not talking now about a strange off-color, neurotic personality. I am talking about Homo sap, average issue, school tie and the lot, see. And we have him walk down a street one block and then ask him at the end of the block, “What have we just seen?” and you would be amazed. You have either seen nothing or you have seen something else, or the people you have passed have been entirely different people. His obnosis – the power of observing the obvious. The ability to observe the obvious. It just is not present.
So you actually should not feel bad or be influenced by this preclear’s opinion of you at all, up until the time you’ve got 3D levels about three­quarters of the way run. Because, you see, he can’t observe. This – this is something you should keep in mind. It’s quite important, because I’ve seen a pc who was sort of bad off, curse and swear at one of the finest, smoothest auditing jobs I’ve ever seen. And I’ve seen a pc who was apparently in fairly good condition, and so forth, totally satisfied with one of the lousiest auditing jobs I was ever punished to witness. There’s just – the pc had nothing to do with this.
So what you do, you see, is you be satisfied with yourself. You see? “Am I turning in a representative auditing job? Is my interest in the case adequate, and is my technical accuracy, as I work with this case, is that adequate? Am I turning in a representative auditing job? Is my technical skill there?” And that’s it. Now, if you have that confidence, you’ll never get rocked. Otherwise, you will continue to get rocked always because your job could be utterly per­fect, and you would still get your eyes clawed out by some pcs, and your job could be horrible, and you would still be kissed on both cheeks by other pcs, you see. “Oh, my auditor’s a wonderful auditor. She gives me such good advice between the auditing commands.” Could get pretty wild, couldn’t it?
So it’s actually up to you to hold and maintain a standard of auditing. You have to know what is – what does a session look like? And what should it look like? And then just hold that standard, that’s all. As best you can, hold the standard. Just turn in a good job of work on the thing, one that you won’t be ashamed of, and one that you don’t think I’d be ashamed of, and you’ll – you’ll have it made, you see. That is what counts. It is your belief in your auditing job.
Now, that belief, of course, can be enormously influenced by the pc, pro­viding you are not sure whether or not you’re turning in a technically perfect auditing job. As soon as you become sure of that, no pc in the world could shake you. It’s only when you are doubtful about what you can do, doubtful about your skill and doubtful about your technical accuracy that you can be shaken.
Now, you just go ahead and hold a standard. That’s very easy to do, and so on. Because the first long run here is not going to be done before a reliable judge: the pc. He is not a reliable judge.
In the first place, he’s – he’s even further introverted during a session than he would normally be. So he is frankly less capable of observing because you’re trying to make him observe himself. So his observation of you, of course, is very poor. So, don’t pay any attention to that. Do you hear me on this? Might practically save your bacon some day.
Maybe if I’d told some auditor this earlier, why maybe we’d had a few auditors who wouldn’t feel so bad about some of their failures or something like this. If somebody had ever told me that, I know I wouldn’t feel so bad about some of mine. So this is the way it goes because that first seventy-five hours may, if your technical accuracy is good and if you’re doing the things and using the tools the way you should – remember those tools are well put together. Don’t – don’t think those tools aren’t.
You’re going to see a little change in beginning and end rudiments adapted to Security Checking or adapted to 3D, you see? You’re going to see a little variation between those two Model Sessions, but the bulk and body of Model Session is unaltered. These things are not altered. Your Security Checks, they’re very set. Your Problems Intensive, that’s very well set. The packaged processes which you have, they’re very well set. These things are not variables. And you are not dealing with variables.
I could give you a table, and I will try to compile you a table, of what to do in almost any – with any type of pc – a very simple table, using exactly the tools you know how to use.
But those first seventy-five hours, well, you just do them.
Now we get up to a point where the pc has needle response. I don’t say that it takes seventy-five hours. And I don’t say that you, graduated from Saint Hill and really knowing your stuff, will not be able to get enough altitude over some pc who is sitting there kind of wide-eyed and overwhumped anyhow. And you say, “Give me your terminal,” bang! You got it, you see. I mean… Crash, the meter goes. You get tremendous meter reads, you see, because you got altitude. Don’t count on other auditors you train having the same altitude, and don’t make the mistake that I continue to make. Please profit by my mistake. I make this mistake continually.
I can sit a pc down; I know my business. I have altitude with the pc. Even when I don’t have altitude with the pc and know my business, I can get command value over the pc very rapidly. I can really make a meter read. Can really make it read.
All right, so then I expect you to do the same thing. That’s not a proper – proper thing for me to do.
But over the years, over the years I have finally learned this fact: One, that I don’t know what a process will do until it is done out of my sight. See, I don’t know what a process will do. And the other one is – is that I have every reason to expect comparable-level auditing from everybody who audits. Oh, you thought I was going to say the reverse, didn’t you? No. You can audit like that because I found out I audit the same way you audit except I just know what I’m doing, and you don’t know what you’re doing. And that unconfidence that you sometimes display at those crucial points on the thing is your only fault. Now, all you’ve got to do is get that confidence, and you’ve got it made.
I’m not saying then that a pc, raw meat, could not be assessed on 3D. You’ve got tremendous altitude with this pc. And you sort of overwhump him, and you hold him like a frozen halibut in-session, and he responds. And he hasn’t any choice. I’m not saying you cannot do this. At the same time, I’m not advising you to do it. Not that you couldn’t get it. Not that it wouldn’t be fine. Not that the pc wouldn’t get tremendous gains. Not for those reasons. But because you’re not going to get that even a run of it. The bulk of the pcs which you sit down across from will not be in any shape to audit, and you’ll be wasting your time on Class II skills when you should be assessing. That’s all.
So that you – you should have enough nerve, either yourself, to set up somebody you care about a great deal as a pc, to set them up perfectly for assessment and get the rudiments in, or turn them over to somebody to be set up one way or the other so that you can assess them. That’s what you ought to be doing with it.
All right. Now, what happens at this point of assessment? Well, you’ve got a needle response. Now, don’t expect the needle response to stay constantly good. You’ve got these rudiments in sort of on the basis of mounting a couple of toothpicks on the side of the Empire State Building, you see? And there’s a high wind, and toothpicks are frail, and they’re liable to fall off at any minute.
Don’t expect, because you have invested seventy-five hours, that they will stay in. All you’ve done is guarantee that you can get them in. That’s all you’ve guaranteed with all of this. Actually, the pc will feel better; he’ll live a better life; he’ll think things are wonderful. You’ve actually done something to change his way of existence; he’ll think this is fine; he’ll have more confidence in you. These are all factors. He’ll think these are gains. You, under your future experience, will learn these aren’t gains at all. They don’t amount to a hill of beans. But they amount to something to the pc. They’re more than the pc could get anywhere else from anybody else.
All right. And you’ve just brought him up to a point where you could get the rudiments in. That’s – that’s about all you could say.
You brought him up to a point where at the beginning of session you have some guarantee that you can get the rudiments in and that they will stay in, probably, maybe, throughout the session. See, probably, I guess. Mm-hm. Maybe, you see. But it’s no more positive than that.
Now, you couldn’t have gotten the rudiments in on him seventy-five hours before. See, so that’s the single gain that you can expect to have made: that you can get the rudiments in on the pc after the pc has been well prepared. It isn’t now that the rudiments will stay in on the pc. They won’t. But they will be much, much better, much easier to keep in. You won’t find yourself coming into session and having to take up two hours of the session with a present time problem. See, you can get the rudiment in as a rudiment.
You’ve got him to a position now where you can call – he tells you he has a present time problem, and then you say, “Well, what’s the prior confusion to it?” Sec check it a little bit, and it blows, and you can get on with the session. Do you understand?
But every session – every few sessions you may find yourself confronted with some upheaval in his life which requires that you spend a whole session putting him in some kind of shape – every now and then, even though he’s been prepared.
You’ve just given yourself the fact that ordinarily you could get the rudiments in. That’s all you’ve done. After all that period of time.
All right. Now, we don’t care whether the pc feels much better, whether he thinks Scientology is wonderful or whether he thinks it’s now horrible. We care nothing about his opinion. We just hope that he is in a bit better communication with the auditor. That is all we hope for. This pc is going to keep telling you constantly, “Well, you know, my left eye still twitches. Hm-hm-hm-hm-hm-hm. My left eye still twitches. Hm-hm-hm-hm-hm. You know, when you ran that Problems Intensive it didn’t do my left eye a bit of good. Hm-hmhm-hm-hm.” You can kind of touch the head of the arm so that it’ll play the next groove.1 But that’s about all you can do about it. Because I can tell you frankly his left eye twitching is buried in the middle in some kind of a wild Goals Problem situation that you couldn’t have got to with an oil-well rig, you see. So, just pat them on the back and say, “That’s fine.”
And they come in and they tell you, “It is so wonderful, so wonderful. I feel so free. I feel so marvelous. You know, my chest no longer hurts. All these years, my chest has been hurting. And my – chest doesn’t hurt very much. And I… Achmmmmm! It’s marvelous what you’ve done for me. I’m so happy about the whole thing.”
You say, “Thank you. Thank you very much,” and get on with the game because you know very well his chest is going to turn on in full before it turns off again. See, you frankly haven’t – you – you haven’t done more than key a few things out.
All right. That’s fine. But, if you expect to do anything horrendous for him, you see, in five hours of Security Checking and so forth, disabuse yourself of the idea. You’re not. Whether he’s happier or unhappier, we couldn’t care less. It’s just whether or not we have to do that five hours of Security Checking while we’re assessing or do that five hours of Security Checking before we start assessing. And it’s always smarter to do it before we start assessing. That’s – that’s all there is to that.
All right. So, we get him into assessment. Now, we spent – there’s time been spent on this pc. This pc is in pretty good condition. Sleeps, oh, almost every now and then, you know. Sleep is much better now. Sleep on the job all day or something like that. And he’s eating. Pc’s eating now. He’s eating now. He’s graduated from eating only nuts to being able to eat bread and nuts. You see, all these great gains, you pay no attention to these things at all. But he’s got all these things, see. He’s all straight, everything is nice, life is going to continue out now at a high climb, and everything is going to be wonderful. And then you start assessing.
Well, during the goals, he’s very, very interested, and everything is fine. Now, during a goals run, a pc is very interested, unless you start goofing and losing his goal, and invalidating it and so forth – he’ll get upset. But even then you can bring his interest back. It’s marvelous. Their interest is right in there with goals. And they go right on with this very nicely. And they just do fine under a Goals Assessment. And nobody’s ever happier than a pc when he finally finds his goal. And that’s quite understandable because he’s been looking for this thing for a long time. If anybody had come up to him three or four years before and say, “What do you intend to do in life?” it would have thrown him into the awfullest confusion he’d ever heard of. And now he can say to them, “What do I intend to do in life? I intend to knock the tops off buildings,” or whatever goal you found on the pc, see. That’s fine, see? All right. But he feels good about this. I’m not making light of that point because that is a tremendous point. He feels fine about this.
Now, the reason Routine 3 is so attractive and why you’re going to find people backsliding and trying to do Routine 3 is just this: You can find a terminal, and the pc is very happy to find his terminal. So now he’s got his goal, and he’s got his terminal. You can also run this terminal, too. And it makes the pc happy to have it run. That’s all dandy.
Now, that route, he’ll stay happy. The other route that you’re going to follow, he’s not going to stay happy. So you just make up your mind to it.
Now, he’s very happy, and he found his goal, and he was so happy to find his goal. And he’s very cheerful, and he’s got this big gains of now he can sleep all day on the job, and he never could sleep a wink before. And he now eats bread and nuts, and he only used to eat nuts. Now, you got all those big, tremendous, forward strides in life. On your very next action, you’re liable to lose all of them.
He’s liable to backslide on any one of them because it’s something like you getting in with a stick and stirring it up. Now, the pc will stay with it, but your technical accuracy and the rapidity with which you do it measures how well that pc will stay with it.
Well, I don’t care what part of 3D you find next, you can’t find the termi­nal because you haven’t got the modifier. You could find the modifier next as in 3A. That’s a hell of a fight trying to find a modifier when you’ve got no oppterm or anything of the sort, but it may – keeps the pc a bit happier. The pc really does not get terribly unhappy. You’re still fighting on his side, you see, when you find the modifier.
No, I’m afraid it’s a little bit better, however, to just run down the 3D exactly the way you’re doing a 3D. You look for the opposition terminal. Well, no telling what you’ll find. You may find the guy’s terminal, but you might not have found his goal in the first place. That might be the opposition goal. This thing is liable to go all topsy-turvy before you get through. The point is have it right. That’s the main point. Don’t have the pc happy about it; have the assessment right.
And if your goal is to make the pc happy while you’re assessing, you’re being very foolish. You should keep the rudiments in while you’re assessing, and the devil with whether the pc likes it or doesn’t like it, you’ve got to have enough ascendancy to make him sit still while you get the rudiments in and while you find the next item. And this pc is going to go over the rolly coasters.
The process of finding the oppterminal – well, you’re asking the fellow to confront an enemy he has never confronted. He just had never confronted this as an enemy. He’s never even identified the enemy. It may be his best friend. You might even be it. Who knows? Who knows what this oppterm is going to be? The thing to do is get it before he has a chance to wake up and inspect it. That’s always fastest. In other words, let’s get the thing and write it down, and three days later on the comm lag, he says, “What do you know? Opposition terminal – a building. You know, I’m in them all the time.” You know? I don’t care. Just find it. You can find it before he finds out about it. If you – if you do that, that slippily, you’ll get it for sure and get it very rapidly and easily. I’m not saying to be covert about it because you can get it head­on, too, with his full cooperation or without it.
All right. Getting his opposition terminal is going to upset him because you’re going to turn on the winds of space. He’s going to feel that backflow. He’s going to feel that he is opposed. He is going to feel that you are no longer really his friend. And if, at that stage of the game you’ve got – he’s got overts on you, that you haven’t pulled, by God, you can’t hold him in-session worth two nickels and a collar button, don’t you see? He’s just not capable of sitting there.
Well, actually, you’re sitting there chanting at him when you’re doing the assessment list. He’s a cop, and you’re – you’re saying, “Robbers, thieves, murderers,” so forth, and you’re going on over every enemy the cop has. It’s very easy for him to associate you with a deadly enemy at that point. See, if your rudiments are out, he will, too. Why? You obviously are connected with them because you are saying these things. These are dirty words to him, really.
Pcs will get some of the most remarkable actions on having assessment lists read back to them again, or getting them checked out. One has even informed a checker that he shouldn’t use such dirty words. The most remark­able reactions occur.
Well, don’t expect them to be sensible reactions because you’re dealing with the bottom rung of his aberration. Now, he may be a nice guy and sensi­ble at all times except when being assessed. And then while he’s being assessed, of course, you’re playing around with and stirring up all of his worst, meanest, most viciousesses selves.
Now, doing an assessment is sort of like taking a pomegranate apart. When you first looked at the pc, these things were not separate. These were all identified, and by assessing them, you separate them. Don’t think that this separate item was sitting there separately. No, it is the piece of glue to which all other pomegranate seeds are stuck. And it’s quite a trick because it might be any of the pomegranate seeds, you see. It might be any of them. But in actual fact it’s just one of them holding the rest of them together. And everything will come off except the last seed. And that’s the glue. Only that isn’t part of the pomegranate. That’s the bank.
You’ve now got your hands on the bank, and the rest of this that you were pulling off of the thing, you have simply been causing the pc to differentiate.
So, the case is coming apart in your hands while you’re assessing. So therefore, if you do a crude job of assessment, it is very comparable to doing a very bad job of auditing. You see, if you aren’t handling the assessment well and pulling this pomegranate to pieces rapidly or skinning the onion or what­ever you want to compare it to, you’re doing a kind of a slow, painful auditing job on the fellow. Because it’s really auditing. It really isn’t searching. You see, you’re pulling those seeds off one after the other, and so forth, and you may pull out the center seed and put the whole pomegranate over here on the right and say, “We’re through with that.” And you will do that often. That’s no great blunder. You’ve missed it.
After this, you keep – all of a sudden there’s nothing sitting at the table in front of you at all. What happened to the pomegranate? See, it’s gone, and we have to get back and get the original list. That’s why you always preserve original lists. Because it might have the one piece of glue that was holding this thing together on it. You see?
There’s only one, and there it is, so you’ve got to have that. And in taking this apart, the pc gets a tremendous feeling of relief when you finally find the one piece that was holding the rest of it to pieces, and you identify it.
Now, he doesn’t have to agree with it at all, and in a lot of the cases he won’t verbally agree with you. He won’t verbally agree with you. He will say, “Oh, well, that couldn’t be it, and I just gave you that in the first place. I was actually just throwing a red herring. I this, I that, I… that…” so on and so on. Because a pc can always be counted on to do himself in if you restimu­late his opposition terminal, because that’s what he’s trying to do in. And he will do in what you will find if he’s been trying to do it in in life. Yeah, after you’ve found it, he will try to do it in. This you can count on in a large number of pcs. After you’ve found it, he then explains to himself how it couldn’t be it and you couldn’t be it. See, he will do this. This is in some number of cases.
The thing which you will see most generally is the person will be just, “Well, of course, yes, that’s it. Well, of course, yes, that’s it, that’s it. No, that couldn’t be it. Well, I sure doubt that, yeah. Well, that’s it! Of course, that – that’s the one. I – I really realize that. That’s just exactly what I’ve been doing. That’s just exactly. I don’t know how you found that thing. Don’t know how you found that thing. Couldn’t be right.” He’s liable to be of some kind of a reversible frame of mind here very easily, so you don’t pay too much atten­tion to it.
All right. You go on and find the opposition goal. Now, this is cruelty beyond cruelty. Having turned on the winds of space on the bird with the opposition terminal, you’re now going to chant opposition goals at him. Well, if this pc were very touchy, of course, it might be a smarter thing to find the modifier before you found the opposition goal. It doesn’t matter what sequence you find the remaining items in, but this is going to turn on more winds of space, but also it’s going to make things much better when you finally have it. So it’s sort of a choice at that point.
And then when you finally get it, he feels better, he feels worse, he feels better, he – but in general feels better.
Now, you’re going to find his modifier. And of course he doesn’t believe that, although he says, “That’s what I do, all right. Yeah, but… uh… Yeah…” That’s what he does. They – they have a tendency to accept their modifier pretty well, except if it’s terribly discreditable and they have given you a terrible time finding it. And if they’ve given you an awful time finding it, of course, they’ve got overts on their own modifier. They’ve got overts on you now, and they can – liable to get all balled up this way.
Well, you go across now having found the goal-plus-modifier and know­ing what it’s against. You can find the G-plus-M by simply getting the opposition, “What would oppose the opposition terminal?” That’s easy, isn’t it? Or “What would oppose the opposition goal?” See? You could take it from there or you could just take the goal-plus-modifier and “who” and “what.” There are many ways you can assess this thing. If you wanted to be sure, you would assess it several ways and find out how many parts you have and then check the parts out and you’ll find some of them are null.
So you could get more parts, apparently. For instance, if – if you got the G-plus-M, the goal-plus-modifier terminal, you just got a list of these things, you assessed them, and you got a G-plus-M – you don’t like it. You – you don’t think this is quite right, or you just want to be sure, or for some reason like that. You could turn around now and you could get, “Who or what would oppose opposition terminal?” Same assessment, isn’t it? But “Who or what would oppose?” You get another list, and you find out nothing occurs on this list that occurred on your G-plus-M list – Where are we going now?
Well, that’s fine. Assess it out and write it down and don’t worry about it too much, but try to find some new ways to find parts, you see? See if you haven’t got some excess baggage here someplace. Find the opposition “actual goal,” the actual opposition goal which isn’t the opposing goal at all. It’s – it’s what the opposition as a person would do – person or being would do. Find that. Find this and find that.
Well, the aspect of the pc while you’re doing all this sort of thing is – because you don’t seem too confident because you’re finding two or three additional parts or you’re trying to sum this up or add this up, and he, of course, is withholding like mad on these things, and all of this – is an upset aspect. And all these beautiful gains are liable to just blow up in smoke through that period.
Somatics turn back on again, the pc becomes apathetic, the pc becomes very upset, the pc becomes this, the pc becomes that. The only thing you should worry about is when the pc becomes something so they won’t have a session. That’s the only thing you should worry about. But those beautiful gains might be all wiped out, right on up to the time when you’ve got a proven-up, settled assessment.
Just before that assessment is finished, you can expect this pc to be an absolute “blank.” The “blank” doesn’t mean he’s blank; it means a dirty word. Pcs before a 3D assessment is finished, can be expected to be bitchy or upset or unsettled and worse off. They don’t like it. They’re in a terrible confusion.
You’ve thrown them into the midst of tremendous numbers of parts and haven’t found the parts they – that fit. And so they react to this confusion and they are very, very upset. And there may be no worse period in their whole processing time, in any processing session, than they go through twenty-four hours a day during a 3D assessment. They do not look good or sound good when they’re going through the ends run of a 3D assessment. Goal? Fine. Opposition terminal? Well, all right. Opposition goal? All right. Modifier? Well, we’re not quite sure by now. And by the time we get down to finding the terminal, oh, God. Life is too horrible. They’re liable to become very dramatic. They’re liable to become much more dramatizing. Anything that they would naturally do by reason of their valence they now do twice as hard. Not commit crimes, but they’re liable to be very, very hard to get along with during that particular period.
I’ve noticed this as a recurring phenomenon. And just before a 3D is finished up, God help everybody. So that’s not necessarily a beautiful vista. And all of a sudden you finish it all up, and they say, “Of course,” and if it’s absolutely right, they relax. And some of these gains we had before, but which vanished during assessment, return. And that’s a good thing that they now have recovered confidence because they’re about to get them all back again the second we start a run.
Frankly, that is the aspect of a pc right up to that point. You can expect that.
All right. Now, during the first assessed run, we can expect the pc, during the first part of the run, quite ordinarily – it all depends, on a long run – if a person’s been run on the terminal before the first level, flattening of the first level, is pretty – pretty easy. They don’t mind this too much. Or they mind it terribly, or it could be quite variable. But ordinarily, your first run, the pc’s willing to sit there and take what comes and so forth. And you run the second level, and – this is in a fresh pc that had never run the termi­nal before – and – and you get them where they’ll sit there and, “Well, and there’s the next one. That’s all right. I’m not quite sure about all these so­matics. Is this quite right?” This couldn’t be right because he never had this many somatics before. And they’re sort of used to the somatics which they have, you see, which is a severe pain across the throat and a hollow feeling in the stomach. That is life.
“How do you feel?”
“Well, I feel a severe pain across the throat and a hollow feeling in the stomach.”
They would have told anybody this for years. And now all of a sudden their best friends are gone. They have a horrible pain in the middle of their back, and their right leg feels paralyzed. This hollow feeling in the middle of their stomach has become much more hollow, and their throat isn’t there. And this is a totally unfamiliar view. Well, what’s happened to them is the Goals Problem Mass is moving in. You have whistled it up and you’ve said, “Well, all the way. Come on.” And it’s moved on in.
Actually, it hasn’t moved at all, but their perception of it has changed, and they finally will focus on it, and when they – if – if it isn’t a correct termi­nal, they never get the goals-modifier terminal inside their own body. It’s out there someplace.
But eventually, after two, three, four, five levels have been run – certainly by that time they should perceive that they have been living in a double house, and that where they stand, something else has always stood. And where the body is, something else has always been there.
Well, the somatics that they get at this particular stage of the game are very changeable, they’re very harsh, they are very upsetting, and they go clear around to the back of the head. They make them feel like the back of their head’s going to fall off. Actually, they’re frankly not too worried, but they sure hurt. They don’t like this particularly. They’re liable to complain, and you’re liable to believe that something is wrong. Yes, there’s something wrong if that doesn’t happen. There’s something wrong with your 3D if that doesn’t happen, because that is routine.
All right. Now, what’s the routine behavior of flattening a level? Some­where from – it all depends on how strong a level you found off the Auxiliary Pre-Have Scale. And it might even – you might even get a stuck TA with only two or three commands. And then it takes you the rest of the bracket, and by the end of the bracket, it’s obvious that the needle has been still for half of the bracket. Well, that’s – that’s getting too tough. That’s awful still. That’s awful stuck. But normally the tone arm, if the assessment is proper, can be expected to go up and stick. And then the needle sticks. First the tone arm sticks, and then the needle shows a little driftiness, and then the needle sticks too.
When you’re first running across these runs, that needle can stop with a clank. You can almost hear it clank. It is just not about to move anyplace. It is in brass. After a while, on later runs, you’ll find it just sits there. It doesn’t neces­sarily sit there at screaming attention. But it’s still stuck, and it’s still stopped.
Now you can expect, then, on this first level, for the tone arm to go up and the needle to stick. And that happens. And when that happens, you don’t overrun that. You do another assessment, and between them, if you had the right havingness, and if everything is going well, and the rudiments are in, and so forth, the person should come down off of that before you run your second run. It doesn’t matter much if they don’t, but they actually should come down off of that. You should be able to get them down off of that, just by virtue of their not running it for a few minutes.
And you run the second level, and it goes up and sticks. The tone arm sticks and the needle sticks. Both of these things stick. And they stick very solidly, and you don’t want to overrun that too far because assessment will be very difficult to do. So you come off of that, and you do it again, and it just – just keeps happening. Up goes the tone arm and sticks. And the needle sticks. And that is all that happens.
And you go on, and you run level after level after level after level, and that’s what happens on every one of the levels. And the pc’s somatics, how­ever, abate after a while. They get less severe. After you’ve run four or five levels, why, the pc’s somatics are – he’s getting used to them. There are still sticky masses inside of him. The mass picture hasn’t changed, and so forth.
Now, during this early run and even very late in the runs, you cannot expect the pc to get clean, clear pictures. There – everything is fuzzy. He won’t even see probably a picture of the terminal until you have run something – if you count running a level as also rerunning a level – until you have had about twenty runs on levels, he may not even get a dub-in picture of the terminal. And he’ll eventually collide with a dub-in picture of the termi­nal in some phase or another. This may puzzle the pc, but of course he is it. How can he see himself?
The pictures are all smashed in on him, and they’re all fuzzy and mucked up and they aren’t really engrams. They aren’t really pictures. They shouldn’t be in 3D. They probably aren’t in color, there’s probably nothing very startling about them. He gets impressions of them. It’s a sort of there’s a picture over there way over to the right someplace, and he gets something about that. There’s a steady picture is liable to occur and reoccur out in front of him that he can’t quite make out. Black ridges occur inside of his head and around him, and he’s not sure what these things all are. And that’s quite ordinary. Quite routine. Nothing to that. If he had a clean track, he would have been able to inspect it, and he wouldn’t be there. And he wouldn’t be in that condition, obviously.
So, all right. Now, what is the – that’s – that’s one of these aspects, that the needle goes up and sticks, and tone arm is… Pardon me, the tone arm goes up and sticks, the needle sticks, and that the pc has no pictures. Now, after you’ve run ten or twelve levels or something of that order, you should rerun all of your levels. You just take them up in sequence from the earliest level through and rerun them.
Frankly, you should rerun them by assessment, but it’s not the same kind of assessment that you do on the Prehav Scale. You just mention – you take the first level and you mention it, and you don’t get any needle reaction, so you take the second level, and you mention it. And you get a needle reac­tion, so you run that level on its same original commands again. And you’ll find there’s a little tone arm motion left in it, and it goes up and sticks, and as soon as it goes up and sticks and you’re sure everything is good and stuck for a few commands, and so forth, you come off of the thing. And you mention the third level to the pc, and that, of course – nothing on that. And you men­tion the fourth level to him; there’s nothing on that. So you mention the fifth level to him, whatever it was, and you get a tick or a sudden stick.
All right. You rerun that level. You rerun it again. And so you go over these things.
Actually, you go over all of them a third time just this same way before you go on up above – certainly above the level of ten or twelve. Before you find ten or twelve levels, let’s get all of the early ones cleaned up by passing over it at least three times on this assessment basis that I’ve just talked to you about.
Now, the pc during this time has not lost the mass. The mass is still observable. It is much lighter. By the time you’ve done the second or third run, you will find – you know, across those levels – and before you’re ready to do new Prehav Assessments you will find that the pc isn’t really bothered by these things, except occasionally they get a sharp pain or suddenly be sitting there thinking about nothing in particular or somebody will be talking to them, and their oppterminal gets mentioned or something like this, and they feel a sort of a zhuuuuu. They feel kind of winds of space hit them for a minute, or they had a hell of a pain in the back of their head or – or their chest will start acting up suddenly, and then they forget about it and so on. It actually isn’t too uncomfortable to them. It’s probably sharper but actually not as bad as some of the illnesses they have had.
Now, they’re liable to believe during this period that they’re going to get sick. That is to say they’re liable to throw up, they’re liable to get very – thing – or they’re liable to develop a fever, or they do develop a fever between sessions. But their sicknesses for the trillennia have all come out of this Goals Problem Mass. How do you expect this person to do otherwise than react to it?
As a matter of fact, I did the anatomy of how a thetan feels pain, and they actually feel it through a Goals Problem Mass. You have to have a valence and a valence in order to – for a thetan to have this sensation of extreme pain. You have to have a double-rooted whizzle to collide with a what­not, you know. You have to have two things colliding, and then he believes he isn’t one of them, and believes he is the other one, and – and you get that. And then these two things will come together, and then you get the pain registered. What you’re doing is pushing the pc beyond the borderlines of extreme pain. He will not be able to feel extreme pain when you figure – when you get one of these things flat.
All right. And of course that’s very bad news to a pc who is so over­whelmed that he thinks pain is delicious.
Anyway, along about the third run or something like that, or sometime during that period, a pc is liable to suddenly develop the symptoms which used to tell him he was going to get sick. And this will worry him.
Well, I’ll give you an idea. The person gets a – gets a bad throat, bad throat. And they knew at one time or another that when their throat felt that way that they were coming down with a sore throat and tomorrow it was going to be worse. Well, frankly, this was the somatic in the Goals Problem Mass which, when it moved its few inches further on to the rest of that par­ticular engram, was the sickness which they used to suffer from, see?
And you’ve caught them at this point which is the warning point. And they’ve always used this as a warning point. They got so that they noticed that when their throat got dry, they then went on and got sick. What they didn’t realize was what was making their throat dry was always – also what was making them sick. And it was simply a cycling through an incident of some kind or another which was totally, flatly worn on the body.
So they get this, and it gives them an idea they’re going to be ill, and they go around thinking they’re going to be ill. And they don’t get ill. It’s very puzzling And it upsets their considerations with regard to these things because life has been pockmarked and predicted by these various sensations, and their map is disappearing, you know?
“When am I going to feel sick at my stomach? Well, I’m going to feel sick at my stomach when I get this small feeling in the back of my neck. Every­body does, you know. Before you’re sick at your stomach, you get this funny feeling in the back of your neck.” Or, “I know something terrible…” Here’s a more familiar one: “I know something terrible is going to happen because I have this terror feeling in the pit of my stomach. And I know that will – probably something bad is going to happen tomorrow.” And all of these signals turn on, see? These are superstition signals that the person has used.
And of course, they wake up in the morning, and by God, they’ve got that terror stomach. They know something bad is going to happen today. It always has happened. In the past, every time they woke up in the morning, you see, and felt that way, why, something bad was going to happen in the rest of the day. That’s for sure.
So they wake up in the morning, and then their stomach feels bad, so they know something bad is going to happen in the day. And then they get up out of bed, and it disappears. So they suddenly remember it was the level the auditor was running on them yesterday, which was “worry” or something like this, you know, or “terror” or something, you see? And it evaporates. They don’t mind all this. It’s just what’s going in and out.
Now, as you go on and run Prehav levels from that point on, you get a slow gain. The pc is not really going to raise hell with you and not going to complain about lack of progress particularly, but they are going to natter that it doesn’t all happen at once.
Well, now, you’re running a problem, and the pc suffers from all of the illusions given to anyone about a problem. A problem is everywhere at once, is hung in an instant of time, and time doesn’t move. These are all the illusions given to one by having a problem. And when he has a hell of a problem, he always knows time is not moving. And he’ll talk to you about why isn’t it happen­ing faster, and I wish it could happen faster. And this is all this – this stuff which is resultant from this – from being up against the central problem of their whole track, is what you collided them with – with a crash, you see.
And this runs out slowly. I hate to tell you this, but it runs out slowly. It does not run out rapidly, because you’re running it out on the basis of socking the pc into the problem. You’re not taking any chances on this thing going off and getting keyed out and then keying in again in a few years. The best thing to do is throw him in the middle of the whirlpool and get rid of it.
What’s going to happen here now is that he is not going to notice his improvements. This could upset an auditor. It is quite common. The pc does not notice his or her own improvements except on a comm lag. They notice them on the basis of about three days or four days or something. They sud­denly realize they haven’t had any trouble sleeping.
Well, for years, you see, they’ve had a lot of trouble sleeping. They can’t even spot what this was or why they stopped having trouble sleeping. They just don’t have any trouble sleeping now. They go to bed, clonk! You know. And they wake up, thud! You know? And they say it’s never happened to them, you know? That’s fantastic.
And this problem about bread and nuts and that sort of thing, well, they – they’re just all set about this and so on. It gradually comes over them as they’re sitting there; they’re eating this great big steak, and they’re chomping into it, you know, slop, slop, slurp, slurp, you know, gulp, gulp, gulp. Suddenly, comes up, “You know, I’ve never eaten steak before!” You know? Or the following day they suddenly remember that they have never eaten steak before, you see? Something goofy like this goes on.
And some of the things that they suffer from get worse. They’ve always had a bad itching back. Their back has always been itching. And every time they’ve ever sat in company, you know, they really felt like doing this all the time, you know, but they didn’t dare. And so they get a sort of a suffering look on their face, and they… And you’ll see them sitting in the auditing chair and they’ll be going grrr, and so forth. And actually their back will get much, much worse. Much worse. And it’ll itch and itch and itch and itch. They’ll complain about it and complain about it.
Well, they’re headed in forwards into a Goals Problem Mass, and the last part of them that gets affected is, of course, the rear. That’s all – that’s all there is to that. And they – they – first just turns on, it turns up and up and up, and it becomes far from unbearable. But it… They complain about it and complain about it and complain about it. And then one day they’re coming into session, and they’re complaining and complaining about their cold feet. And they’re complaining and complaining about their cold feet.
And you say, “What’s the matter with your back? How’s your back today?”
“Oh, well, that. That was nothing. That was nothing. Don’t pay any attention to that. I don’t know why I ever worried about that, that’s gone. Why are you worried about that? I’m not worried about that.” That’s their main answer.
You’ll see them fly up a flight of stairs taking three steps at a time, you see? Zip! You know, come up to the top, and then fly down the flight of stairs. Just thud, see? And they come down to the bottom, bang! No breath short­age. Nothing walk along, not panting.
He used to go up the stairs four at a time and then, pant! pant! – you know. They don’t appreciate your calling this to their attention though. They say, “Of course. That’s the way I am.” Or they’ll explain to you with a perfectly straight face – perfectly straight face – that if they were – their terminal’s a waterbuck, well, that’s the way a waterbuck is.
And their social conversation – they give people long lessons on the sub­ject of this and that, and it’s really terribly interesting to listen to. But they are prone to do this. It’s terribly interesting. But it’s rather interesting to have somebody give you a dissertation on the subject of… It must be hell on waiters. That’s all I really…
This fellow says, “Well now, you see, in the seventeenth century, violins weren’t made that way, you see – these violins. I remember a violin I made one time and – back there, and uh…” About that time you can just hear the waiter’s neck creak.
“Well, I don’t think they should have come across the sunken road at the Battle of Waterloo. I was down in the middle of it there on a cavalry charger, and it was not comfortable. You see, cavalry chargers have to be very care­fully disciplined.” And here we get – here we get the – the know-how on the subject of the handling and training of cavalry chargers. Or “Books aren’t printed that way in the upper galaxy. They don’t print books that way at all. They have electronic beams, you see. They have this big machine…” It’s very educational.
But the person’s thinkingness, you would think at this time, is being far more – this is the mistake you can make – is being far more colored by their terminal than it ever has been before, or that their views are far more col­ored than they ever had been before.
This is not true at all. Their views are much less colored because they know now what they are talking about. And they are very conscious of the fact that while they are talking about that, they are being a waterbuck, you see. They’re very conscious of this fact. And they’re also conscious of the limitations of a waterbuck. And it begins to dawn on a pc about this time that the terminal was the limiter of the things it pretended to extend.
In other words, if their terminal was a swimmer, at first they’re of the opinion of “That is why I have succeeded,” and this lasts quite a while into auditing “Well, I have succeeded as a swimmer because I have a terminal as a swimmer.” And then, eventually, as they get the thing run, they start remembering all the races they’ve lost, you see, all the swimming races they’ve lost. And they find out they’ve lost practically nothing but swimming races. And then they suddenly realize that in order to be a successful swim­mer, they’d have to get rid of this cotton-pickin’ terminal. That would be the way to be a successful swimmer.
In other words, the terminal appears to be valuable up through a certain strata. And then the pc all of a sudden starts to fly on his own and realizes that the terminal itself is a limiter of ability, and that the pc realizes even­tually that he has these abilities himself, and the terminal never had any abilities. But all the terminal did was specially channel the abilities in such a way as to make the pc relatively ineffective in executing these abilities. That’s all.
For instance, if we had somebody who was – had a terminal “a gigolo,” you know. We’d find out he’s been a dreadfully bad gigolo, terrible gigolo, you know? Never asked an old lady for a sou if he could possibly get out from under it, you know. And he – he just never really was a good gigolo. And we get him all straightened up, and he goes out and chucks an old lady under the chin, and she at once reaches into her purse for the hundred franc note, you see? Pang! You know? I mean, just – just like that. It’s – he’s gotten rid of the terminal. You see, it was in his ability to be a gigolo, but as long as he was being a gigolo on a dramatizing basis, of course, he never could be a gigolo – not really. He couldn’t be a good gigolo. It’s very interesting.
There’s a certain sense of freedom, then, begins to emerge, and that actually begins to emerge somewhere toward the end of about the third rerun of the first twelve levels. And the person starts coming out of this feeling of “I’m good because I was a…” They don’t come out of it very thoroughly. Then they sometimes very wisely realize that it was because they were prob­ably pretty well educated at one time or another into being a that they have so much data on the subject. And they begin to realize that they are data wise.
Now, I told you one time that if you cleared a cannibal, you’d have a cleared cannibal. Right? Used to say that fairly often. Now, the truth of the matter is we have exceeded this definition of Clear with a Dynamic Clear. And this is where we’re going and why we’re going in that particular direction. If you clear a can­nibal you no longer have a cannibal – today. And furthermore, this person will also be able to learn to do something else or will resurrect the data which enables him to practice something else, and so forth, at the same time, while not depriving him of the ability to dine succulently on human flesh. But he doesn’t have to do it anymore. And he also has sense enough to realize, as he looks around the civilized community, that hardly anybody in there is eating any bodies. So it isn’t done here, so he doesn’t do it. And he wouldn’t do it until he got someplace where it was socially acceptable again, you see? In other words, you have judgment on the subject.
Now, what crime is, is action without inspection. And this is what you’ve restored. And you restored it fully. Action without inspection.
A person will begin to realize while he’s – why he’s holding himself down while running these things, too. Some of the most unlikely cognitions will start turning up. He’s holding himself back so that he won’t cannibalize. He has to have all these things. He doesn’t dare move out around the grounds for fear he might start dining on human flesh, you know? Because he’s got reprehensible – not all terminals are considered to be reprehensible, but there is not one terminal any pc will ever run that doesn’t have its reprehensible side. They are – there are no terminals that are free from all sin. See, it’s impossible, because they never would have been a terminal.
All right. Now, let’s look back at the review of this, and let’s find out that it – what this was all about. Now, how did the pc get into this mess in the first place? Well, he objected to the activities of the terminal, so he attacked the terminal, and then he accepted its enemies. He attacked the terminal, interiorized into it and accepted its enemies. He accepted its ene­mies before he attacked the terminal. He accepted its enemies after he attacked the terminal. And they were both the same enemy.
In other words, he chose this thing as something to attack. This was something he objected to in the society at large. So he decided to eradicate it. And he got enough overts on it, and they were mostly failed overts, and failed withholds, and while attacking it, he lost often enough, and he finally became this thing. And now ever since he’s trying to get rid of it because, of course, he hates it.
So, therefore, people commit suicide, cut their own throats, fix them­selves up with unsuccessful lives; of course, they’re still trying to get rid of this terminal.
All right. Now, the individual’s freedom, of course, is tremendously restricted as long as it is totally patterned upon the terminal and its opposi­tion. Because the individual will continue to go to the opposition to eradicate himself as a terminal, and so we get this weird explanation of human behav­ior. He’ll continue to do this always. It rather explains human behavior. It’s why they behave this way.
All right. The individual, as he comes up the line, then, improves on runs very gradiently. He approve – improves gradually. He doesn’t improve suddenly, flashily. And it would be a bad thing if he did improve flashily. He wouldn’t know himself from day to day.
But he starts straightening out, and you can be very, very disinterested from a professional viewpoint if suddenly some pet somatic of his – oh, you’ve run now – you’ve run twelve levels – twelve levels three times through, you’ve gotten all of those flat, and the pc is still sitting there with one of his favorite chronic somatics. Don’t worry about it. Don’t worry about it. These things go away slowly, they don’t go away rapidly.
Now, a pc can run level after level after level without a single cognition, and it’s sort of like – he’ll get several cognitions running his first level or his second level, he may. And then he may run several levels without any cogni­tions whatsoever. Just grind, grind, grind, grind, grind. And he may get the same problem over and over and over and over. He may get the same circum­stances over and over and over. And he may get the same scene over and over and over and over. It doesn’t matter a bit. You just keep running it. We don’t care what he’s getting; and it doesn’t matter at all because all of this thing will shake out sooner or later. And then he’ll spend a session and he’ll just have cognitions, cognitions, cognitions, and he, “Oh, is that what that’s all about? Is that what it’s all about?”
Or late in the evening, he was sitting down taking his socks off, and an hour later he’s still poised there with one sock halfway off, you know? A whole string of cognitions have suddenly cut loose and started going off like skyrockets, you know. And he’ll try to take up the whole next session and give you the cognitions he had the night before. Well, you want to fix him up with new cognitions, not review old ones.
But anyway, there’s – there’s your expectancy at this particular stage of the game. And if a case does these things, this is a poor show. A case runs nice, big, beautiful 3D pictures, doesn’t get into anything for three or four sessions, gets into nothing, gets into this lifetime only, doesn’t really tangle with anything, and the tone arm does not go up, and the tone arm – and nothing sticks, and so forth; well, you just got a lousy 3D combination, that’s all. It’s just bum.
But if the tone arm goes up and sticks, and the pc seems to be alert, and the pc to you looks better, and the pc looks less like they’re being smashed against the wall, the chances are that you’re running the right terminal, you see, and that you’re running the right oppterm, and that the 3D is okay, and everything is fine, it’s going along – providing the tone arm goes up and sticks, and the pc has collided with a mass, and so on. All these things are the expected things.
Now, you could have an oppterm slightly off and have a pc run oddly. If you run the opposition terminal as the pc’s terminal, it’s going to be odd, all right. It’s going to practically blow the pc’s head off. The pc is just going to sit there, and there’s more and more pressure on the front and less and less happening about it. You’ve got him in the ranks of the enemy. But that they get pressure is a foregone conclusion. They will get this running their right terminal, you see.
But I’m talking about it’s – it – they get blown in on. Everything’s blowing at them, you know. And their face is sort of disappearing, and their chest starts disappearing, and yeowwwwwww. And that’s running the wrong side of it.
If more levels start going alive… That’s why you must keep up your 3D forms. You must keep up these 3D forms. List your levels. And every time you do an assessment on the Prehav Scale, put down after it on the 3D form over there, “Anger: twenty-seven alive.” See? And you’ll come back to it next assessment. You’re thinking about other things, you see, and you put down, “Jeopardize: thirty-seven alive.” Well, that’s a bit dangerous. All right. And then you run another level, and you put down “Hate: seventy-six alive.” Well, it’s about time to put the pc on the plane to Saint Hill or – or something, or – or be sensible and do another 3D, or something of the sort. Or look the thing over, inspect it, try to get some more terminals, try to get some more parts, check out what you’ve got, and so forth. Because you’re running a wrong terminal if that’s happening. You’re not just on the opposition side of it. You’re running a wrong terminal.
Well, the oppterm – I can’t quite tell you what goes wrong when an oppterminal goes off. You’re running the right – pc’s right terminal, and you’ve got the wrong opposition terminal. If you have that, the thing is going to go awry, but at this stage of the game I can’t tell you because I haven’t observed one. So I wouldn’t know.
But I don’t think the Goals Problem Mass will come up and hit the pc in the face. The Goals Problem Mass will hit the pc in the face if he’s on the opposition terminal. See, you’ll run him into the Goals Problem Mass with a thud. Well, with far too much in the way of air currents, things don’t get solid to the pc, they get blowy. You know, winds of space.
If they’re on the right terminal, they get plenty going on in front of them and inside of them, but it’s getting solid. It is in the level of solidity. And they have an outflowing aspect. Although they’re being smashed in, they still have an outflowing aspect. They sort of feel like “Wooooo, it’s uuuu… Well, it’s out there, and I’m here, and – and so forth.” 
If you want a subjective reality on how it feels, how it feels, or how it looks to have the oppterm goal, why, as I told you several times, just repeat the opposition terminal to the pc several times. This pc’s terminal is water­buck; opposition terminal, tiger. You say, “Tiger, tiger, tiger, tiger, tiger, tiger, tiger, tiger, tiger, tiger, tiger, tiger, tiger, tiger, tiger, tiger, tiger, tiger, tiger…”
Pc… He won’t be able to help it. You’ll see – see him going back. And you say, “What did you feel at that time?”
“I don’t know. It’s something You know-and-it – well, something. Ha-ha-ha-ha. And it sort of – I don’t know. Currents moving or something.”
And then, of course, be kind enough to restore it. Say, “Waterbuck, waterbuck, waterbuck, waterbuck, waterbuck, waterbuck, waterbuck, water­buck, waterbuck, waterbuck, waterbuck. Well, what does that feel like?”
“Well, it’s getting kind of solid, ha-ha. That’s right. Solid.”
So it’s the high wind versus solidity. The high wind, of course, is when you’re running the opposition terminal. If you ran the pc as the opposition terminal, he can’t get into it because he isn’t in it, and he’ll get a sort of a frantic idea of getting into it.
Now, those are some of the things you can expect out of a 3D run. It’s very gradual. The improvements – they’re not very spectacular. But as far as improvement is concerned, they are much greater than you would – could expect out of ordinary, old-time auditing. They’re much greater than this. It’s just that the pc is not as vocal about them. They’re considerably greater.
All right. Now let’s take another aspect of this situation, and that is, how long would it take? Well, that depends on the accidental combinations of the Prehav Scale. That depends upon the density of the mass, the ferocity of the situation. That depends upon the auditor. It depends on how well the pc’s rudiments stay in, how well the pc’s rudiments are put in. And I won’t give you any kind of an estimate. I won’t give you an estimate. I don’t know. It is much too variable. It looks to me like one of these very variable pictures.
But, I don’t think you’re going to get anybody in going real Clear, in five hours or ten hours. I know that won’t happen because, of course, you are not now keying them out. You could only get a fast Clear with key-outs. You could key them out and clear them fast. And they’d register Clear. But you’re making a different type of Clear, and your expectancies of this, of course, are different. But they’re not infinite. They’re very far from infinite. It’s not a worrisome length of time. It’s not even a bad length of time.
The biggest change your pc will get – just to recapitulate – from the view­point of the pc, is of course in his Sec Check and rudiments in, and so forth. He’ll think this is quite a change. And then he’ll say that the biggest change and the – the… You – you won’t be able to observe much change in the pc except he’s a little more friendly. That’s about all.
But you will now start to observe a considerable change in the pc at the time you get his 3D parts. When you’ve got all these wrapped up, why, there is a great change in the pc. And this is an enormous shift on 3D. And when you run the pc from day to day, you will be able to see the changes in the pc, and the pc won’t.
Now, it starts out with the pc seeing marvelous changes that you can’t observe. That is on Sec Checking and all that sort of thing. And then it starts in on big changes that you can observe, and the pc definitely observes, and the pc is very excited about. And – and it’s sort of “Wow,” or “Damn it,” or “Isn’t it horrible,” and it doesn’t matter what their tone of mind is, you know. But it’s change, and they’re really getting a shift. They’re finding exactly what it’s all about.
And then after that you’re the one who notices it. You’ve done just a complete reversal on the situation. The pc’s sitting there, and the pc is look­ing brighter, and the pc is looking healthier, and the pc is looking more active, and you say, “Well, are you feeling better today?”
“No, as a matter of fact, I’m not. I have a pain here in my side here, and so forth. I’m kind of worried about it, you know.” The pc looks about five years younger today than they did yesterday, you know. So it goes into reverse look. Of course, it is what it is, and changes are what they are.
All right. Well, I’ve tried to give you some kind of a – a recapitulation of how 3D looks over broad numbers of cases, and what I would look for as being right and what I’d look for as being wrong. And it might have occurred that some of you – you already have, by the way; you’ve all helped me do this one way or the other. I never saw such frantic comments in my life as I’ve had on the subject, you know.
“The pc can’t get any pictures. The pc just can’t get any pictures. I mean, it’s just all masses out there one kind or another. Well, yes, of course, you know, and so on and so on.” It’s one reaction. Another one is “The tone arm just goes up and sticks. I can’t make it do another thing.” And the funny part of it is that I’m giving you these remarks because an auditor apparently gets worried about all the right things. See, the right things about 3D are what the auditor gets worried about about 3D. And there’s the tone arm going up and sticking. And the pc can’t get any pictures, and black masses, and ter­rible somatics inside the body, and the feeling like the pc is going no place. Nothing is happening of any kind whatsoever in the pc.
Well, something is happening, but it feels like they’re going no place to the auditor. The auditor says the pc is always complaining about somatics, and so forth. The auditor never thinks to ask the pc, “Are these somatics different than the somatics you had yesterday?”
“Oh,” the pc will say, “the somatics I had yesterday. Let’s see. Oh, yes, quite, quite different. They’re different than the somatics I had this noon, as a matter of fact. As a matter of fact, they’re different from the somatics I had at the beginning of session. As a matter of fact, they’re gone. As a matter of fact, they’re much worse at this particular moment that we’ve been talking about them.”
So you’re looking at a – you’re looking at a giddy change rate here, see. And an auditor’s expectancy is geared up to very slow shift of somatics or something of this sort of thing. You’ll see the way it goes.
If a 3D is wrong, why, you will be able to tell it from the winds of space phenomena which I keep describing it to you. You see, the reason I call it the winds of space is because, of course, there is no air there to blow, and there isn’t anything to have any current except maybe electronic flows. Only these electronic flows probably don’t exist, so they must come from someplace else. And, of course, out in outer space there are no winds. So there are no winds there, and yet there are winds there. The pc can feel them.
The other thing that would be very dangerous is levels living up. But if you’re doing an accurate assessment, if you’re doing a very, very accurate assessment each time, of course, you wouldn’t even make a mistake on this. And if levels are living up, that is a dangerous symptom. It isn’t that you should come off of 3D. It isn’t that you should do this or that or do something desperate or fantastic or something like this. What you should do about it is just check the thing over and find out if there’s anything wrong with this, and find out if the levels still react, and – and find out some little odds and ends about all this 3D. See? That’s all you’re interested in.
And then you’re satisfied that the thing is right; run another level. Find out if that one came alive. Maybe that one will die out. Maybe much – many less levels alive. Maybe you’re going across some kind of a peak. Maybe the pc wasn’t quite doing your auditing commands. Maybe the rudiments were out, you see? There’s a lot of odd, obvious auditing errors could have been occurring that would have – might else have accounted for it. It’s still a dangerous symptom.
The pc can’t somehow come to grips with a Goals Problem Mass, and yet the pc seems to be running their own terminal; I would probably suspect the oppterm as being off, and I’d reassess for an oppterm. You’ll get another opp­term.
You might have gotten an oppterm that was almost it and would last for a little while, see, but it wasn’t quite right. I normally can see these things a mile off because if it doesn’t add up to me, that there’d be a conflict there, I know it isn’t enough for a person to have spent a trillennia in agony over it, you see? You wouldn’t have a canary bird and – you wouldn’t have a canary – you’d have a canary bird and a cat. Yeah, you could figure that one out. See? Natural game.
All right. But you wouldn’t have a canary bird and old boots. Old boots, canary bird. Oh, no, no, no. He might have an incident where a canary bird got caught in some boots, but I don’t think it’d happen very often. That’s not the kind of game we’re – we’re shooting these days – old boots.
And I’d just – I wouldn’t throw the assessment away or suggest anything to the pc. I’d just work it over here. What’s right? What are we sure is right. All right, let’s take that point of departure and then let’s reassess and check everything there, making sure the old item is also on the list, and we use the old list, and so forth. Let’s just do a rapid check on it and see if we come out with something else this time. Ah, there was something else showed up. And something else all of a sudden was going bing, bing, and that looks much better now. And then it’ll settle down and run as a pattern.
But what is a pattern run? Well, I just described it to you in this lecture. Gruesome as it is, that is a pattern run. Heavy masses, heavy valences, hidden bodies inside of bodies, aches, pains and somatics, pc acting like they’re on wire.
There’s one phenomena I haven’t mentioned to you. After the first few runs, you’ll get this: you’ll be trying to make things stick, and then the pc will twitch their elbow or lean back in the chair, and you get a blowdown. After this thing gets freed up, after a 3D level sticks, it more and more rap­idly goes free. It won’t stay there. It won’t stay stuck. Sometimes it stays a bit stuck, but mostly it’ll get more and more impermanent.
In other words, your stuck is up there, and the needle is stuck, and it was for sure a stick. And three days ago this would have been like a truck running into a wall, you see? But it’s real stuck, and there’s no doubt about that. And then the pc takes his attention or her attention off of the thing, and puts down the cans and picks up the cans, and is reading at Clear read. They were reading at 4.5; now they’re reading at Clear read, see? It – it just comes down rapidly. That sort of thing should increase. If it isn’t increasing you’re running with the rudiments out.
If the stuck TA is not more rapidly coming down and returning to Clear read more rapidly and more rapidly – and if you say why am I introducing Clear read, well, it starts to go down to Clear read and stay there except when you audit the Goals Problem Mass.
If this isn’t happening more easily and more rapidly the more you audit, I would suspect you were auditing with the rudiments out. And that there were a lot of levels that you’ve covered that haven’t been cleaned up. Or there were auditing levels back there that the pc couldn’t answer and never told you about, or there was something goofed up here in the – in the auditing itself – not in the assessment; there’s something goofed up in the auditing
Okay? Well, I hope that’s been of some assistance to you. And those of you who have not been over this ground are under no obligation to follow this exact pattern.
Thank you very much.
