
Remimeo

			 HUBBARD COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
		    Saint Hill Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex

			 HCO BULLETIN OF 4 JANUARY 1973

			  (Reissued 6 April 74 -- Only
			  change made is in signature)
Remimeo
				 Study Series 9

				    CONFRONT

     There are several choices in English on the meaning of "confront". These
include the right one: To face without flinching or avoiding. An example in a
sentence: "The test of a free society is its capacity to confront rather than
evade the vital questions of Choice."

     There is another meaning "To stand facing or opposing, especially in
challenge, defiance or accusation."

     English is a pretty limited language in many ways. I imagine the thought
of facing something (which is what the word came from and originally meant way
back -- "fron" being "face") was so horrifying to the types who write
dictionaries they knew it would be bad!

     In essence it is an action of being able to face.

     If one cannot, if he avoids, then he is not AWARE.

     Awareness is the ability to perceive the existence of. In the dictionary
it also fails to confront that and says "Awareness: the quality or state of
being aware." And Aware means: "marked by realization, perception or
knowledge."

     So these chaps couldn't confront and so conceived awareness to be figure-
figure.

     We are moving out of the range of language when we want to say:

     "He could stand up to things and wasn't always shrinking back into
himself and avoiding, so he could be fully conscious of the real universe and
others around him."

     And that's what Confront means.

     If one can confront he can be aware.

     If he is aware he can perceive and act.

     If he can't confront he will not be aware of things and will be withdrawn
and not perceiving. Thus he is unaware of things around him.

     That's the tech of it.

							 L. RON HUBBARD
							 Founder
LRH:ntm.jh
Copyright $c 1973, 1974
by L. Ron Hubbard
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
				      182




L. RON HUBBARD
Founder


Type = 11
iDate=30/3/73
Volnum=0
Issue=1
Rev=0
rDate=0/0/0
Addition=0
aDate=0/0/0
aRev=0
arDate=0/0/0

STEP FOUR -- HANDLING ORIGINATIONS


Remimeo

			 HUBBARD COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
		    Saint Hill Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex

			 HCO BULLETIN OF 30 MARCH 1973
Remimeo 			    Issue I
			   REISSUED 21 SEPTEMBER 1974
			   (Only change is signature)

		       STEP FOUR -- HANDLING ORIGINATIONS

			     Edited and taken from
		    PROFESSIONAL AUDITOR'S BULLETIN NO. 151
				 1 January 1959

     What do we mean by an origin of the preclear? He volunteers something all
on his own; and do you know that is a very good index of case -- whether the
person volunteers anything on his own? An old-time auditor used this as a case
index. He said, "This fellow isn't getting any better. He hasn't offered up
anything yet." You see, he didn't originate -- he didn't originate a
communication.

     So remember that the preclear is as well as he can originate a
communication. That means he can stand at Cause on the communication formula.
And that is a desirable point for him to reach.

     But how about in the walk-away world -- the world that is ambulant and
moving around and spinning quietly, or noisily, as the case may be? Do you
ever have to handle an origin in it? Well, I dare say that every argument you
have ever got into was because you did not handle an origin. Every time you
have ever got into trouble with anybody, you can trace it back along the line
you didn't handle. If a person walks in and says, "Whee! I've just passed with
the highest mark in the whole school," and you say, "I'm awfully hungry,
shouldn't we go out and eat?" -- you'll find yourself in a fight. He feels
ignored. He originated a communication to have you prove to him that he was
there and he was solid. Most little kiddies get frantic about their parents
when their parents don't handle their originations properly. Handling an
origination merely tells the person, "All right, I heard it, you're there."
You might say it is a form of acknowledgment, but it's not; it is the
communication formula in reverse. But the auditor is still in control if he
handles the origin -- otherwise, the communication formula goes out of his
control and he is at effect point, no longer at cause point. An auditor
continues at cause point.

     So let's look this over. The handling of an origin has a great deal of
use and, until recently, it was the least pat step in Scientology. How did you
handle an origin? And we finally found out. I finally had a cognition myself.
I tried for a long time to communicate this to people and they still blundered
on it occasionally. And I finally found out something that did seem to
communicate.

     There are three steps in handling an origin. Here is the setup: The
preclear is sitting in the chair and the auditor is sitting across from the
preclear, and the auditor is saying, "Do fish swim?" or "Do birds fly?" and
the preclear says, "Yes." Here is the factor, now, entering: "Do fish swim?"
The preclear doesn't answer Do fish swim, the preclear says, "You know -- your
dress is on fire," or "I'm eight feet back of my head," or "Is it true that
all cats weigh 1.8 kilograms?" You see, wog-wog -- where did this come from?
Well, although it is usually circuitry or something like that at work when
it's that far off beam, it is, nevertheless, an origin. How do you handle it?
Well, you don't want the preclear to go out of session, and he would if you
handled it wrongly, so (1) you answer it; (2) you maintain ARC (you don't
spend any time at it, but you just maintain ARC); and (3) you get the preclear
back on the process. One, two, three. And if you spend too much time in (2),
you'll be doing wrong.

				      183


     What is an origin? All right, he says, "I'm eight feet back of my head."
It's an origin; what are you supposed to do with it? Well, you're supposed to
answer it. In this particular case, you would say to him something in the
order of, "You are?" (You mean something like, "I've heard the communication --
it's made an effect on me.") Now, in maintaining ARC you can skimp that
second one if you handle the third one expertly enough. The least important
one is the second one, but the most deadly thing you can do is utterly to
neglect the second one of maintaining ARC. That's deadly. But you can skip it
if you really punch it into the third one, which is to say, get him back into
session. So he says, "I'm eight feet back of my head," and you say, "YOU
ARE???" (What he said really hit, you know.) He's kind of wog-wog about this --
he's not sure what this is all about. You say, "You are?" and the fellow
says, "Yes."

     "Well!" you say. "What did I say that made that happen?"

     "Oh, you said 'Do birds fly?' and I thought of myself as a bird and I
guess that's the way it is, but I am eight feet back of my head."

     "Well, that's pretty routine," you say -- reassure him, maintain the ARC.
"Now, what was that auditing question?"

     "Oh, you asked me 'Do birds fly?'"

     And you say, "That's right. Do birds fly?"

     Back in session, you see.

     You can't do this: You can't put it into a can and put a label on it and
say "This is how you do it always," because it's always something peculiar;
but you can say these three steps are followed.

     I will give you another example. You say, "Do birds fly?" and he says, "I
have a blinding headache."

     "You do?" you say. "Is it bothering you (that's the ARC) too much to
carry on with the session (and you've reached number three at once)?"

     "Oh no -- it's pretty bad though."

     "Well, let's go on with this, shall we?" you say. "Maybe it'll do
something with it (maintaining ARC)."

     He says, "Well, all right," and you're right back onto it again: "Do
birds fly?"

     One of the trickiest of these is "What in my question reminded you of
that?" The fellow says, "Well, so and so," and he explains it to you and you
say, "Well, good. Do birds fly?" and you're right back in session again.

     Three parts, and -- that is the important thing -- you have to learn how
to handle these things.

							 L. RON HUBBARD
							 Founder
LRH:nt.rd
Copyright $c 1959, 1973, 1974
by L. Ron Hubbard
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
				      184




L. RON HUBBARD
Founder


Type = 11
iDate=5/4/73
Volnum=0
Issue=0
Rev=0
rDate=0/0/0
Addition=0
aDate=0/0/0
aRev=0
arDate=0/0/0

AXIOM 28 AMENDED


Remimeo
HAS Course

			 HUBBARD COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
		    Saint Hill Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex

			  HCO BULLETIN OF 5 APRIL 1973
			   REISSUED 19 SEPTEMBER 1974
			   (Only change is signature)
Remimeo
HAS Course

				AXIOM 28 AMENDED

AXIOM 28.

     COMMUNICATION IS THE CONSIDERATION AND ACTION OF IMPELLING AN IMPULSE OR
     PARTICLE FROM SOURCE-POINT ACROSS A DISTANCE TO RECEIPT-POINT, WITH THE
     INTENTION OF BRINGING INTO BEING AT THE RECEIPT-POINT A DUPLICATION AND
     UNDERSTANDING OF THAT WHICH EMANATED FROM THE SOURCE-POINT.

     The formula of Communication is: Cause, Distance, Effect, with Intention,
     Attention and Duplication WITH UNDERSTANDING.

     The component parts of Communication are Consideration, Intention,
     Attention, Cause, Source-point, Distance, Effect, Receipt-point,
     Duplication, Understanding, the Velocity of the impulse or particle,
     Nothingness or Somethingness. A non-communication consists of Barriers.
     Barriers consist of Space, Interpositions (such as walls and screens of
     fast-moving particles), and Time. A communication by definition, does not
     need to be two-way.

     When a communication is returned, the formula is repeated, with the
     receipt-point now becoming a source-point and the former source-point now
     becoming a receipt-point.

							 L. RON HUBBARD
							 Founder
LRH:nt.rd
Copyright $c 1973, 1974
by L. Ron Hubbard
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
				      185




L. RON HUBBARD
Founder


Type = 11
iDate=7/4/73
Volnum=0
Issue=0
Rev=1
rDate=15/11/74
Addition=0
aDate=0/0/0
aRev=0
arDate=0/0/0

GRADIENTS IN TRs

Type = 12
iDate=7/4/73
Issue=0
Rev=0
rDate=0/0/0
Addition=0
aDate=0/0/0
aRev=0
arDate=0/0/0

Remimeo
All
Supervisors
All Students
Cramming
TR Courses

			 HUBBARD COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
		    Saint Hill Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex

			 HCO BULLETIN OF 7 APRIL 1973R
Remimeo 		   REVISED 15 NOVEMBER 1974
All		      (Revisions are in this type style)
Supervisors
All Students			    CANCELS
Cramming		      BTB OF 7 APRIL 1973
TR Courses
				   SAME TITLE
				GRADIENTS IN TRs

		     (Taken from LRH Tape of 30 June 1961,
		     "Training on TRs -- Talk on Auditing")

     Time after time you're going to find somebody in an Organization trying
to teach the TRs this way: Go on to TR 0 and stick there.

     Eight months later he'll still be doing the TR 0.

     You're going to find that consistently, because the element of ENDURE
enters into it. That is improper.

     Here is the way you do the TRs. You'll find it very valuable.

     You do TR 0, flunking only TR 0. You go on to TR 1. The guy didn't pass
TR 0. He just got accustomed to it a little bit.

     You do TR 1, flunking only TR 1. Don't flunk anything else.

     TR 2, flunking only TR 2.

     TR 3, flunking only TR 3.

     TR 4, flunking only TR 4.

     Now come back to TR 0. Get the guy better at TR 0.

     Then go through it again, flunking only the TR he is on. It's kind of
like running the CCHs -- they get a little bit of a win at it and you go on to
the next one.

     About the third run through or maybe the fifth run through, according to
your judgement, you start TR 0 and you insist that it's pretty good; and you
should really start cuffing him around. Flunk only the one he's on but start
cuffing him around hard. Give him the business. Give him things he can't
possibly confront. Try to shake him up.

     Now -- start in TR 0 and give him the works. TR 1 and give him the works.
TR 2-3-4. Flunk only the TR that he's on, but give him the works. Don't give
him a chance.

     Run through the TRs that way a couple of times, flunking only the TR that
he's on, giving him the works, pushing his buttons. Give him something to
confront for sure.

     And then start the business of TR 0, mess him up, TR 1, mess him up --
and flunk TR 1 AND TR 0.

     TR 2, mess him up, flunk TR 2, TR 1, TR 0.

				      186


     Get him on TR 3, messing him up and flunking TR 3, TR 2, TR 1, TR 0.

     Get him on TR 4, messing him up and flunking TR 4, TR 3, TR 2, TR 1, TR 0.

     Thereafter in running the TRs always give him the works. Flunk everything
in that battery of TRs.

     If you do that, you shorten considerably the time it takes to learn the
TRs.

     In other words, you approach this with a gradient scale.

     We did learn about gradient scales many years ago and we should continue
to apply that knowledge.

     Let them get used to each TR.

     You'll find out they progress much faster if you do it that way.

							 L. RON HUBBARD
							 Founder

LRH:nt.rd
Copyright $c 1961, 1973, 1974
by L. Ron Hubbard
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

				      187




L. RON HUBBARD
Founder


Type = 11
iDate=10/6/73
Volnum=0
Issue=1
Rev=2
rDate=19/9/74
Addition=0
aDate=0/0/0
aRev=0
arDate=0/0/0

Cramming Series 10RA
CRAMMING


Remimeo
Qual Secs
Cramming
Offs

			 HUBBARD COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
		    Saint Hill Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex

			 HCO BULLETIN OF 10 JUNE 1973RA
Remimeo 			    Issue I
Qual Secs		    REVISED 20 FEBRUARY 1974
Cramming		   REISSUED 19 SEPTEMBER 1974
Offs			   (Only change is signature)

			      Cramming Series 10RA

				    CRAMMING

     The datum that "Qual does not take orders" solves the Admin Cramming
dilemma of the staff member crammed four times on the Dev-T Pack.

     It is up to Qual to handle, fully and totally. This means, not following
the exact order, but finding the real Why on the person and handling it at
once.

     Qual's function is correction. By policy Qual does not take orders on
What to do to correct.

     Where an exec wants certain material covered, that's okay. Cover it. But
find the WHY! And on a repeat order, realize it was a wrong Why and really
work it over.

     Several staff have been crammed several times on the Dev-T Pack. Means
Qual takes orders.

     The PRODUCT of Qual Admin Cramming is a functioning producing staff
member who can produce on post.

							L. RON HUBBARD
							Founder
LRH:nt.rd
Copyright $c 1973, 1974
by L. Ron Hubbard
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

				      188




L. RON HUBBARD
Founder


Type = 11
iDate=11/7/73
Volnum=0
Issue=0
Rev=0
rDate=0/0/0
Addition=0
aDate=0/0/0
aRev=0
arDate=0/0/0

ASSIST SUMMARY


Remimeo

			 HUBBARD COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
		    Saint Hill Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex

			  HCO BULLETIN OF 11 JULY 1973
Remimeo
				 ASSIST SUMMARY

		REFERENCE:

		HCO PL	7 Aug 71  Interne Okay to Audit Checksheet,
			Issue II  Assists Pack
		HCO B  5 July 71  C/S Series 49, Assists
		HCO B 23 July 71  Assists, A Flag Expertise Subject
		HCO B  12 Mar 69  Physically III Pcs and Pre OTs
			Issue II
		HCO B  24 Apr 69  Dianetic Use
		HCO B  14 May 69  Sickness
		HCO B  23 May 69  Auditing out Sessions,
				  Narrative Versus Somatic Chains
		HCO B 24 July 69  Seriously III Pcs
		HCO B 27 July 69  Antibiotics
		HCO B  15 Jan 70  The Uses of Auditing
		HCO B	1 Dec 70  Dianetics -- Triple Flow Action
		HCO B	5 Jan 71  Going Earlier in R3-R
				  and Exteriorization Intensives
		HCO B	9 Oct 67  Assists for Injuries
		HCO B 22 July 70  Touch Assist
		HCO B	5 May 69  Touch Assists
			Issue I
		HCO B	2 Jan 71  Illegal Auditing
		HCO B 15 July 70  Unresolved Pains
		(Reissued 25 Nov 70)
		HCO B	7 Apr 72  Touch Assists, Correct Ones

     Injuries, operations, delivery of babies, severe illnesses and periods of
intense emotional shock all deserve to be handled with thorough and complete
assists.

     Medical examination and diagnosis should be sought where needed, and where
treatment is routinely successful, medical treatment should be obtained. As an
assist can at times cover up an actual injury or broken bone, no chances
should be taken, especially if the condition does not easily respond. In other
words where something is merely thought to be a slight sprain, to be on the
safe side an X-ray should be obtained, particularly if it does not at once
respond. An assist is not a substitute for medical treatment but is
complementary to it. It is even doubtful if full healing can be accomplished
by medical treatment alone and it is certain that an assist greatly speeds
recovery. In short, one should realize that physical healing does not take
into account the being and the repercussion on the spiritual beingness of the
person.

     Injury and illness are PREDISPOSED by the spiritual state of the person.
They are PRECIPITATED by the being himself as a manifestation of his current
spiritual condition. And they are PROLONGED by any failure to fully handle the
spiritual factors associated with them.

     The causes of PREDISPOSITION, PRECIPITATION and PROLONGATION are
basically the following:

	  1.  Postulates.
	  2.  Engrams.
	  3.  Secondaries.
	  4.  ARC Breaks with the environment, situations, others or the body
	      part.
	  5.  Problems.
	  6.  Overt Acts.
	  7.  Withholds.
	  8.  Out of communicationness.

				      189


     The purely physical facts of injuries, illnesses and stresses are
themselves incapacitating and do themselves often require physical analysis
and treatment by a doctor or nutritionist. These could be briefly catalogued
as:

	  A.  Physical damage to structure.
	  B.  Disease of a pathological nature.
	  C.  Inadequacies of structure.
	  D.  Excessive structure.
	  E.  Nutritional errors.
	  F.  Nutritional inadequacies.
	  G.  Vitamin and bio-compound excesses.
	  H.  Vitamin and bio-compound deficiencies.
	  I.  Mineral excesses.
	  J.  Mineral deficiencies.
	  K.  Structural malfunction.
	  L.  Erroneous examination.
	  M.  Erroneous diagnosis.
	  N.  Erroneous structural treatment.
	  O.  Erroneous medication.

     There is another group which belongs to both the spiritual and physical
divisions. These are:

	  i.  Allergies.
	 ii.  Addictions.
	iii.  Habits.
	 iv.  Neglect.
	  v.  Decay.

     Any of these things in any of the three groups can be a cause of non-
optimum personal existence.

     We are not discussing here the full handling of any of these groups or
what optimum state can be attained or maintained. But it should be obvious
that there is a level below which life is not very tolerable. How well a
person can be or how efficient or how active is another subject entirely.

     Certainly life is not very tolerable to a person who has been injured or
ill, to a woman who has just delivered a baby, to a person who has just
suffered a heavy emotional shock. And there is no reason a person should
remain in such a low state, particularly for weeks, months or years when he or
she could be remarkably ASSISTED to recover in hours, days or weeks.

     It is in fact a sort of practiced cruelty to insist by neglect that a
person continue on in such a state when one can learn and practice and obtain
relief for such a person.

     We are mainly concerned with the first group, 1-8. The group is not
listed in the order that it is done but in the order that it has influence
upon the being.

     The idea has grown that one handles injuries with touch assists only.
This is true for someone who as an auditor has only a smattering of
Scientology. It is true for someone in such pain or state of case (which would
have to be pretty bad) that he cannot respond to actual auditing.

     But a Scientologist really has no business "having only a smattering" of
auditing skills that could save his or the lives of others. And the case is
very rare who cannot experience proper auditing.

     The actual cause of not handling such conditions is, then, to be found as
iv. NEGLECT. And where there is Neglect, v. DECAY is very likely to follow.

     One does not have to be a medical doctor to take someone to a medical
doctor. And one does not have to be a medical doctor to observe that medical
treatment may not be helping the patient. And one does not have to be a
medical doctor to handle things caused spiritually by the being himself.

				      190


      Just as there are two sides to healing -- the spiritual and the
structural or physical, there are also two states that can be spiritually
attained. The first of these states might be classified as "humanly
tolerable". Assists come under this heading. The second is spiritually
improved. Grade auditing comes under this second heading.

      Any minister (and this has been true as long as there has been a subject
called religion) is bound to relieve his fellow being of anguish. There are
many ways a minister can do this.

      An assist is not engaging in healing. It is certainly not engaging in
treatment. What it is doing is ASSISTING THE INDIVIDUAL TO HEAL HIMSELF OR BE
HEALED BY ANOTHER AGENCY BY REMOVING HIS REASONS FOR PRECIPITATING, AND
PROLONGING HIS CONDITION AND LESSENING HIS PREDISPOSITION TO FURTHER INJURE
HIMSELF OR REMAIN IN AN INTOLERABLE CONDITION.

      This is entirely outside the field of "healing" as envisioned by the
medical doctor and by actual records of results is very, very far beyond the
capability of psychology, psychiatry and "mental treatment" as practiced by
them.

      In short, the assist is strictly and entirely in the field of the spirit
and is the traditional province of religion.

      A minister should realize the power which lies in his hands and his
potential skills when trained. He has this to give in the presence of
suffering: he can make life tolerable. He can also shorten a term of recovery
and may even make recovery possible when it might not be otherwise.

      When a minister confronts someone who has been injured or ill, operated
upon or who has suffered a grave emotional shock, he should be equipped to do
and should do the following:

      A CONTACT ASSIST where possible and where indicated until the person has
reestablished his communication with the physical universe site. To FN.

      A TOUCH ASSIST until the person has reestablished communication with the
physical part or parts affected. To FN.

      HANDLE ANY ARC BREAK that might have existed at the time a) with the
environment, b) with another, c) with others, d) with himself, e) with the
body part or the body, and f) with any failure to recover at once. Each to FN.

      HANDLE ANY PROBLEM the person may have had a) at the time of illness or
injury, b) subsequently due to his or her condition. Each to FN.

      HANDLE ANY OVERT ACT the person may feel he or she committed a) to self,
b) to the body, c) to another, and d) to others. Each to FN.

      HANDLE ANY WITHHOLD a) the person might have had at the time, b) any
subsequent withhold, and c) any having to withhold the body from work or
others or the environment due to being physically unable to approach it.

      HANDLE ANY SECONDARY, which is to say emotional reactions, before,
during or after the situation. This must be run from the first intimation
something was wrong or going to happen or being told something had happened.
This is by chain to FN. And then Flow 2 to FN and then Flow 3 to FN.

      HANDLE ANY ENGRAM of actual physical duress. Run Flow 1 by chain to FN.
Then Flow 2 to FN. Then Flow 3 to FN. It is understood here that Flow One was
the physical incident itself, not necessarily something done to the person but
as something that happened to him or her.

      POSTULATE TWO-WAY COMM. This is two-way comm on the subject of "any
decision to be hurt" or some such wording. This is done only if the person has
not

				      191


already discovered that he had decisions connected to the incident. It is
carried to FN. One must be careful not to invalidate the person.

      Where a person is injured, given a contact or touch assist and then
medical examination and treatment, he is given the remainder as soon as he is
able to be audited. The drug "five days" does not need to apply. But where the
person has been given an assist over drugs, one must later come back to the
case when he is off drugs and run the drug part out or at least make sure that
nothing was submerged by the drugs. It is not uncommon for a person to be
oblivious of certain parts of a treatment or operation at the time of initial
auditing, only to have a missing piece of the incident pop up days, months or
even years later. THIS is the reason injuries or operations occasionally seem
to persist despite a full assist: a piece of it was left unhandled due to a
drugged condition during the operation; such bits may come off unexpectedly in
routine auditing on some other apparently disrelated chain.

      It can happen that a person is in the midst of some grade auditing at
the time of an injury or illness or receiving an emotional shock. The question
arises as to whether or not to disrupt the grade auditing to handle the
situation. It is a difficult question. But certainly the person cannot go on
with grade auditing while upset or ill. The usual answer is to give a full
assist and repair the case to bridge it back into the grade auditing. The
question however may be complicated in that some error in the grade auditing
is also sitting there, not to cause the illness or accident but to complicate
the assist. This question is handled fully only by study of the case by a
competent Case Supervisor. The point is not to let the person go on suffering
while time is consumed making a decision.

				    SUMMARY

      Religion exists in no small part to handle the upsets and anguish of
life. These include spiritual duress by reason of physical conditions.

      Ministers long before the Apostles had as a part of their duties the
ministering to the spiritual anguish of their people. They have concentrated
upon spiritual uplift and betterment. But where physical suffering impeded
this course, they have acted. To devote themselves only to the alleviation of
physical duress is of course to attest that the physical body is more
important than the spiritual beingness of the person which, of course, it is
not. But physical anguish can so distract a being that he deserts any
aspirations of betterment and begins to seek some cessation of his suffering.
The specialty of the medical doctor is the curing of physical disease or non-
optimum physical conditions. In some instances he can do so. It is no invasion
of his province to assist the patient to greater healing potential. And ills
that are solely spiritual in nature are not medical.

      The "psych-iatrist" and "psych-ologist" on the other hand took their
very names from religion since "psyche" means soul. They, by actual
statistics, are not as successful as priests in relieving mental anguish. But
they modernly seek to do so by using drugs or hypnotism or physical means.
They damage more than they help.

      The minister has a responsibility to his people and those about him to
relieve suffering. He has many ways to do this. He is quite successful in
doing so and he does not need or use drugs or hypnotism or shock or surgery or
violence. Until his people are at a level where they have no need of physical
things, he has as a duty preventing their spiritual or physical decay by
relieving where he can their suffering.

      His primary method of doing so is the ASSIST.

      As the knowledge of how to do them exists and as the skill is easily
acquired, he actually has no right to neglect those for whose well-being he is
responsible, as only then can he lead them to higher levels of spiritual
attainment.

LRH:nt.rd					   L. RON HUBBARD
Copyright $c 1973				   Founder
by L. Ron Hubbard
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
[Added to by HCO B 6 Jan 74, Assist Summary -- Addition.]

				      192




L. RON HUBBARD
Founder


Type = 11
iDate=21/7/73
Volnum=0
Issue=0
Rev=0
rDate=0/0/0
Addition=0
aDate=0/0/0
aRev=0
arDate=0/0/0

Qual Flub Catch Series 4
RECOVERING STUDENTS
AND PCS


Remimeo
Tours Hats
ARC Brk Regs
Est Os
Qual Secs
Dirs
Validity
ARC Brk
Auditor

			 HUBBARD COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
		    Saint Hill Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex

			  HCO BULLETIN OF 21 JULY 1973
Remimeo
Tours Hats		 (HCO PL 25 June 1972 Reissued
ARC Brk Regs		  as an HCO B without change.)
Est Os
Qual Secs
Dirs			   Qual Flub Catch Series 4
Validity
ARC Brk
Auditor 		      RECOVERING STUDENTS

				    AND PCS

     ARC Brk Regs and Tours Personnel (as well as Ethics Officers) collide with
students and pcs who have blown (run away from) the org.

     The recovery of these and getting them back on the line is of great
interest to such personnel.

     In the first place, they muddy up a field. In the second place EVERY ONE
OF THEM CAN BE GOTTEN BACK IN.

     If you leave them about they spoil prospects.

     And there's nothing more startling to their friends than to have these
people who have been nattering around suddenly turn up (repaired) saying, "OK
it's all fine now. They're great guys."

     Because Tech does work, this is not hard to do. Down deep they know that
we do have the answer. It's an apparent refusal to apply it to them they're
concerned about.

     Poor offbeat Supervision, poorly trained auditors, lack of cramming in an
org get in your way. So you have a deep interest that tech, in both Courses
and Auditing, is straight.
				    STUDENTS

     Students who doped in Class, nattered or got upset have been known to blow
(leave hurriedly).

     But also, students who are interrupted too often when F/Ning may also
blow! On a "w/h of nothingness".

     These points -- "not helped by the Super" and "interfered with too much"
-- must BOTH be checked on getting blown students back.

     ARC Brk Registrars and Tours people run into these blown students. They
must know how to handle.

     There are 5 main blow reasons:

     1.   Misunderstood words (or no materials).

     2.   No help or WC Method 4 from the Supers (or no Super).

     3.   Interference from the Supers that stopped them from getting on.

     4.   Personal out-Ethics resulting in a w/h.

     5.   Simply booted off for reasons best known to God or Registrars (like
	  suddenly saying "You must no buy Method 1" etc, thus violating the
	  "deliver what we promise" rule).

				      193


     The interference and boot-off reasons are the ones you'd least suspect.
Both generate a lot of H, E & R (Human Emotion and Reaction).

     The reasons most pcs blow are

     1.   Out lists

     2.   No auditing

     3.   Invalidation of case or gains

     4.   Told they'd attained it and hadn't.

     Of these the out list (meaning overlist or wrong items) produces the most
fantastic HE&R. Needs repair with an "L4B".

     No auditing includes being sent to Ethics or Cramming (on Solo) or just
stalled. Remedy is to deliver what's promised.

     Invalidation of case or gains includes being made to go on past a win.
This acts as an invalidation. Some pcs who made it are hung up from then on
out because no one asked them to declare it. Remedy is to get it declared.

     When told they had attained it and hadn't they feel cut off from all
further help. Remedy is to repair it by getting off the suppress and finish up
the job in the org.

     TO HANDLE ANY OF THIS YOU MUST REALIZE THAT TECH DOES WORK IN BOTH STUDY
AND AUDITING.

     The most gross errors have to exist before it doesn't work.

     Auditors can be trained to audit and can audit. But some SP in an org
gets some out tech order in force like "Auditors mustn't do TR 0 in Cramming
as it stirs up their cases" (which is a complete lie and which was just found
as NY's reason for poor tech and down stats).

				     ACTION

     When handling the blown student or pc you can assess the above points on a
meter. Or just know them by heart and rattle them off and you'll get the real
reason right now.

     The object is to put the student or pc back on the rails.

     The above points are all valid.

     A very fast way to handling auditing outnesses is to give a FREE AUDITING
CHECK using HCO B 31 Dec 71, Revised 16 May 72, C/S Series 53RC. To it one adds
"No Auditing" at the end under L. One has a good auditor (who has good TRs and
who knows how to read a meter well) assess it on the blown or upset pc.

     One or more of these items will give a Long Fall Blowdown. You indicate
this to the pc. You don't handle it. You just say, "The reason you were upset
was (whatever read)." The pc should suddenly magically feel better.

     DON'T try to Audit it further on a FREE CHECK. Tell the pc to go to the
org to get everything handled now.

     Route the assessed sheet "To the PC FOLDER OF _______ (pc's name). PUT IN
FOLDER FOR F1RST AUDITING ACTION," and sign it.

     The above checklists can be done on students by discussion. Don't use the
C/S 53RC and the pc checklist both as the pc checklist above is on the C/S
53RC.

				      194


     The difference is C/S 53RC has to be done by an auditor. The other list
can be done in 2 way comm socially.

     In phoning people and running into ARC Broken pcs or students the two
short checklists can be used.

     Sea Org Missions have successfully used another approach. They say
they're there to handle the org and make it a safe place. The response is very
gratifying.

     THE PUBLIC HATES LIKE HELL TO BE DENIED DIANETICS AND SCIENTOLOGY.

     After all you're just handing them their future happiness on a silver
platter.

     Don't just avoid such people. And don't bother to listen to the natter.
The above actions are the reasons.

     Puts you right on top of the situation.

     That's where Tours and ARC Brk Regs and auditors should be.

     I recall one old fellow who blew an org staff (SH), hated everybody.
Stayed away for years. A student auditor ran into him socially, grabbed a
meter and put in Level III (Change and ARC Break) on him. And bang there he
was writing to me about how great it all was!

     Bad Supervision or untrained or careless auditors or flubbing Admin
personnel make a lot of trouble for us. But the vast majority of org staffs
are very fine. So don't get down on the org. Get the flubbers unpopular. And
get back those who have been flubbed. There are no dog pcs or bad students.

				 ETHICS ACTION

     Whenever you find one of these you should make a brief report. One copy
goes to the Ethics Officer of the org, as a knowledge report. The other goes
to FLUB CATCH CONTROL TRAINING AND SERVICES FLAG.

     You have to give the when and the who and the what.

     Then the org itself and Flag can come down on the outness and correct it.

				    SUMMARY

     Just knowing these points there are no blown students or pcs you can't
get back or get signed up again.

							 L. RON HUBBARD
							 Founder
LRH:nt.jh
Copyright $c 1972, 1973
by L. Ron Hubbard
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
				      195




L. RON HUBBARD
Founder


Type = 11
iDate=29/7/73
Volnum=0
Issue=0
Rev=0
rDate=0/0/0
Addition=0
aDate=0/0/0
aRev=0
arDate=0/0/0

Art Series 2
ART, MORE ABOUT


Remimeo

			 HUBBARD COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
		    Saint Hill Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex

			  HCO BULLETIN OF 29 JULY 1973

Remimeo 			  Art Series 2

				ART, MORE ABOUT

			  Ref:	HCO B 30 Aug AD15, ART

     How good does a professional work of art have to be? This would include
painting, music, photography, poetry, any of the arts whether fine or
otherwise. It would also include presenting oneself as an art form as well as
one's products.

     Yes, how GOOD does such a work of art have to be?

     Ah, you say, but that is an imponderable, a thing that can't be answered.
Verily, you say, you have just asked a question fur which there are no answers
except the sneers and applause of critics. Indeed, this is why we have art
critics! For who can tell how good good is. Who knows?

     I have a surprise for you. There IS an answer.

     As you know, I searched for many years, as a sort of minor counterpoint
to what I was hard work doing, to dredge up some of the materials which might
constitute the basis of art. Art was the most uncodified and most opinionated
subject on the planet -- after men's ideas about women and women's ideas about
men and Man's ideas of Man. Art was anyone's guess. Masterpieces have gone
unapplauded, positive freaks have gained raves.

     So how good does a work of art have to be to be good?

     The painter will point out all the tiny technical details known only to
painters, the musician will put a score through the Alto horn and explain
about valve clicks and lip, the poet will talk about meter types, the actor
will explain how the position and wave of one hand per the instructions of one
school can transform a clod into an actor. And so it goes, art by art, bit by
bit.

     But all these people will be discussing the special intricacies and holy
mysteries of technique, the tiny things only the initiate of that art would
recognize. They are talking about technique. They are not really answering how
good a work of art has to be.

     Works of art are viewed by people. They are heard by people. They are
felt by people. They are not just the fodder of a close-knit group of
initiates. They are the soul food of all people.

     One is at liberty of course to challenge that wide purpose of art. Some
professors who don't want rivals tell their students "Art is for self-
satisfaction" "It is a hobby." In other words, don't display or exhibit, kid,
or you'll be competition! The world today is full of that figure-figure. But
as none of this self-satisfaction art meets a definition of art wider than
self for the sake of self, the professional is not interested in it.

     In any artistic production, what does one have as an audience? People.
Not, heaven forbid, critics. But people. Not experts in that line of art. But
people.

     That old Chinese poet who, after he wrote a poem, went down out of his
traditional garret and read it to the flower-selling old lady on the corner
had the right idea. If she understood it and thought it was great, he
published. If she didn't he put it in the bamboo trash can. Not remarkably,
his poems have come down the centuries awesomely praised.

				      196


     Well, one could answer this now by just saying that art should
communicate to people high and low. But that really doesn't get the sweating
professional anywhere as a guide in actually putting together a piece of work
and it doesn't give him a yardstick whereby he can say "That is that!" "I've
done it." And go out with confidence that he has.

     What is technique? What is its value? Where does it fit? What is
perfectionism? Where does one stop scraping off the paint and erasing notes
and say "That is that"?

     For there is a point. Some artists don't ever find it. The Impressionists
practically spun in as a group trying to develop a new way of viewing and
communicating it. They made it -- or some of them did like Monet. But many of
them never knew where to stop and they didn't make it. They couldn't answer
the question "How good does a piece of art work have to be to be good?"

     In this time of century, there are many communication lines for works of
art. Because a few works of art can be shown so easily to so many there may
even be fewer artists. The competition is very keen and even dagger sharp. To
be good one has to be very good. But in what way and how?

     Well, when I used to buy breakfasts for Greenwich Village artists (which
they ate hungrily, only stopping between bites to deplore my commercialism and
bastardizing my talents for the gold that bought their breakfasts) I used to
ask this question and needless to say I received an appalling variety of
responses. They avalanched me with technique or lack of it, they vaguely dwelt
on inherent talent, they rushed me around to galleries to show me Picasso or
to a board fence covered with abstracts. But none of them told me how good a
song had to be to be a song.

     So I wondered about this. And a clue came when the late Hubert Mathieu, a
dear friend, stamped with youth on the Left Bank of the Seine and painting
dowagers at the Beaux Arts in middle age, said to me "To do any of these
modern, abstract, cubist things, you have to first be able to paint!" And he
enlarged the theme while I plied him in the midnight hush of Manhattan with
iced sherry and he finished up the First Lady of Nantucket's somewhat swollen
ball gown. Matty could PAINT. Finally he dashed me off an abstract to show me
how somebody who couldn't paint would do it and how it could be done.

     I got his point. To really make one of these too too modern things come
off, you first had to be able to paint. So I said well, hell, there's Gertrude
Stein and Thomas Mann and ink splatterers like those. Let's see if it really
is an art form. So I sharpened up my electric typewriter and dashed off the
last chapters of a novel in way far out acid prose and put THE END at the
bottom and shipped it off to an editor who promptly pushed several large
loaves down the telephone wire and had me to lunch and unlike his normal
blase self said, "I really got a big bang (this was decades ago, other years,
other slang) out of the way that story wound up! You really put it over the
plate." And it sent his circulation rating up. And this was very odd because
you see the first chapters were straight since they'd been written before
Matty got thirsty for sherry and called me to come over and the last chapters
were an impressionistic stream of consciousness that Mann himself would have
called "an advanced rather adventurous over-Finneganized departure from the
ultra school."

     So just to see how far this sort of thing could go, for a short while I
shifted around amongst various prose periods just to see what was going on.
That they sold didn't prove too much because I never had any trouble with
that. But that they were understood at all was surprising to me for their
prose types (ranging from Shakespeare to Beowulf) were at wild variance with
anything currently being published.

     So I showed them to Matty the next time he had a ball gown to do or three
chins to paint out and was thirsty. And he looked them over and he said,
"Well, you proved my point. There's no mystery to it. Basically you're a
trained writer! It shows through."

				      197


     And now we are getting somewhere, not just with me and my adventures and
long dead yesterdays.

     As time rolled on, this is what I began to see: The fellow technician in
an art hears and sees the small technical points. The artist himself is
engrossed in the exact application of certain exact actions which produce,
when done, his canvas, his score, his novel, his performance.

     The successful artist does these small things so well that he also then
has attention and skill left to get out his message, he is not still fiddling
about with the cerulean blue and the semiquaver. He has these zeroed in. He
can repeat them and repeat them as technical actions. No ulcers. Strictly
routine.

     And here we have three surrealist paintings. And they each have their own
message. And the public wanders by and they only look with awe on one. And why
is this one different than the other two? Is it a different message? No. Is it
more popular? That's too vague.

     If you look at or listen to any work of art, there is only one thing the
casual audience responds to en masse, and if this has it then you too will see
it as a work of art. If it doesn't have it, you won't.

     So what is it?

     TECHNICAL EXPERTISE ITSELF ADEQUATE TO PRODUCE AN EMOTIONAL IMPACT.

     And that is how good a work of art has to be to be good.

     If you look this over from various sides, you will see that the general
spectator is generally unaware of technique. That is the zone of art's
creators.

     Were you to watch a crowd watching a magician, you would find one common
denominator eliciting uniform response. If he is a good magician he is a smooth
showman. He isn't showing them how he does his tricks. He is showing them a
flawless flowing performance. This alone is providing the carrier wave that
takes the substance of his actions to his audience. Though a far cry from fine
art, perhaps, yet there is art in the way he does things. If he is good, the
audience is seeing first of all, before anything else, the TECHNICAL EXPERTISE
of his performance. They are also watching him do things they know they can't
do. And they are watching the outcome of his presentations.  He is a good
magician if he gives a technically flawless performance just in terms of
scenes and motions which provide the channel for what he is presenting.

     Not to compare Bach with a magician (though you could), all great pieces
of art have this one factor in common. First of all, before one looks at the
faces on the canvas or hears the meaning of the song, there is the TECHNICAL
EXPERTISE there adequate to produce an emotional impact. Before one adds
message or meaning, there is this TECHNICAL EXPERTISE.

     TECHNICAL EXPERTISE is composed of all the little and large bits of
technique known to the skilled painter, musician, actor, any artist. He adds
these things together in his basic presentation. He knows what he is doing.
And how to do it. And then to this he adds his message.

     All old masters were in there nailing canvas on frames as apprentices or
grinding up the lapis lazuli or cleaning paintbrushes before they arrived at
the Metropolitan.

     But how many paintbrushes do you have to clean? Enough to know that clean
paintbrushes make clean color. How many clarinet reeds do you have to replace?
Enough to know which types will hit high C.

				      198


     Back of every artist there is technique. You see them groping, finding,
discarding, fooling about. What are they hunting for? A new blue? No, just a
constant of blue that is an adequate quality.

     And you see somebody who can really paint still stumbling about looking
for technique -- a total overrun.

     Someplace one says, "That's the TECHNICAL EXPERTISE adequate to produce
an emotional impact." And that's it. Now he CAN. So he devotes himself to
messages.

     If you get this tanged up or backwards, the art does not have a good
chance of being good. If one bats out messages without a TECHNICALLY EXPERT
carrier wave of art, the first standard of the many spectators seems to be
violated.

     The nice trick is to be a technician and retain one's fire. Then one can
whip out the masterpieces like chain lightning. And all the great artists seem
to have managed that. And when they forked off onto a new trail they mastered
the technique and then erupted with great works.

     It is a remarkable thing about expertise. Do you know that some artists
get by on "Technical expertise adequate to produce an emotional impact" alone
messages? They might not suspect that. But it is true.

     So the "expertise adequate" is important enough to be itself art. It is
never great art. But it produces an emotional impact just from quality alone.

     And how masterly an expertise? Not very masterly. Merely adequate. How
adequate is adequate? Well, people have been known to criticize a story
because there were typographical errors in the typing. And stories by the non-
adept often go pages before anyone appears or anything happens. And scores
have been known to be considered dull simply because they were inexpertly
chorded or clashed. And a handsome actor has been known not to have made it
because he never knew what to do with his arms, for all his fiery thunderings
of the Bard's words.

     Any art demands a certain expertise. When this is basically sound, magic!
Almost anyone will look at it and say Ah! For quality alone has an emotional
impact. That it is cubist or dissonant or blank verse has very little bearing
on it; the type of the art form is no limitation to audience attention
generally when it has, underlying it and expressed in it, the expertise
adequate to produce an emotional impact.

     The message is what the audience thinks it sees or hears. The
significance of the play, the towering clouds of sound in the symphony, the
scatter-batter of the current pop group, are what the audience thinks it is
perceiving and what they will describe, usually, or which they think they
admire. If it comes to them with a basic expertise itself able to produce an
emotional impact they will think it is great. And it will be great.

     The artist is thought of as enthroned in some special heaven where all is
clean and there is no sweat, eyes half closed in the thrall of inspiration.
Well maybe he is sometimes. But every one I've seen had ink in his hair or a
towel handy to mop his brow or a throat spray in his hand to ease the voice
strain of having said his lines twenty-two times to the wall or the cat. I
mean the great ones. The others were loafing and hoping and talking about the
producer or the unfair art gallery proprietor.

     The great ones always worked to achieve the technical quality necessary.
When they had it they knew they had it. How did they know? Because it was
technically correct.

     Living itself is an art form. One puts up a mock-up. It doesn't happen by
accident. One has to know how to wash his nylon shirts and girls have to know
what mascara runs and that too many candy bars spoil the silhouette, quite in
addition to the pancreas.

				      199


     Some people are themselves a work of art because they have mastered the
small practical techniques of living that give them a quality adequate to
produce an emotional impact even before anyone knows their name or what they
do.

     Even a beard and baggy pants require a certain art if they are to be the
expertise adequate to produce an emotional impact.

     And some products produce a bad misemotional impact without fully being
viewed. And by this reverse logic, of which you can think of many examples
such as a dirty room, you can then see that there might be an opposite
expertise, all by itself, adequate to produce a strong but desirable emotional
impact.

     That is how good a work of art has to be. Once one is capable of
executing that technical expertise for that art form he can pour on the
message. Unless the professional form is there first, the message will not
transmit.

     A lot of artists are overstraining to obtain a quality far above that
necessary to produce an emotional impact. And many more are trying to machine
gun messages at the world without any expertise at all to form the vital
carrier wave.

     So how good does a piece of art have to be?

							 L. RON HUBBARD
							 Founder
LRH:nt.jh
Copyright $c 1973
by L. Ron Hubbard
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
				      200




L. RON HUBBARD
Founder


Type = 11
iDate=30/7/73
Volnum=0
Issue=0
Rev=0
rDate=0/0/0
Addition=0
aDate=0/0/0
aRev=0
arDate=0/0/0

SCIENTOLOGY, CURRENT STATE OF THE
SUBJECT AND MATERIALS


BPI

			 HUBBARD COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
		    Saint Hill Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex

			  HCO BULLETIN OF 30 JULY 1973
BPI
		       SCIENTOLOGY, CURRENT STATE OF THE

			     SUBJECT AND MATERIALS

     There is a possibility that some Scientologists have not realized the
extent of technical materials which exist in Dianetics and Scientology on the
subject of the spirit, mind and life.

     For instance, there are about 25,000,000 words on tape in archives which
provide the consecutive path of discovery.

     When placed chronologically with books, HCOBs, HCO PLs and other issues
this gives a nearly complete record of all discoveries and applications in
these subjects.

     The total numbers of words or even the number of tapes and issues to date
have not been reliably calculated.

     From time to time various efforts have been made to transcribe and issue
all the materials. The task should be done, especially before the decay of
magnetic tape, some of which was of poor quality, eradicates the material. But
proper and safe equipment and trustworthy technicians who would not turn out
an overt product have been lacking. A project of assembly in the 1960s was
balked by inadequate record pressing material available in the society around
us. A more strenuous and reliable effort should be made to place these
archives into a more durable form than magnetic tape.

     More or less complete sets of all materials exist in many places on the
planet to safeguard against destruction.

     It is from this tremendous archives that study packs and other materials
are made up. These and their checksheets are very numerous and available.

     A chronological study of materials is necessary for the complete training
of a truly top grade expert in these lines. He can see how the subject
progressed and so is able to see which are the highest levels of development.
Not the least advantage in this is the defining of words and terms, for each,
when originally used, was defined, in most cases, with considerable
exactitude, and one is not left with any misunderstoods. It is for this reason
that the Saint Hill Briefing Course checksheet should consist only of the
chronological materials, studied in chronological order, excepting only the
Study Tapes (Primary Rundown) which should be done first if not previously
done properly.

     An enormous amount of this material does exist in issuable form. While not
strictly technical, HCO PLs, almost all of them, now exist in books grouped by
subjects and I think will soon exist in chronological form also. It is
projected that this be done with HCOBs, but these of course should be only in
chronological and complete order and the points where books and tapes were
part of this track should be indicated. Transcriptions and edited versions of
tapes (which do not however rearrange meaning or alter data) exist for a great
many tapes and it is projected that these shall also be the subject of a
future issue. For instance, the "Philadelphia Lectures" have recently been
transcribed and could easily be edited into volumes for issue and should be,
due to their popularity.

     The subject of Scientology is to some degree developed in reverse order.
The task was to undercut the current level of Man and this was the general
target. Therefore one

				      201


finds the higher levels publicly spoken of most frequently in the earlier
books and tapes (between '51 and '55). In seeking full application to others
and attainment for them of their potentials it was necessary to codify the
materials and develop processes for them.

     Any difficulties people were having with going Clear were handled in the
mid '60s and OT levels as they exist in Advanced Orgs were completed by '68.
There are perhaps 15 levels above OT VII fully developed but existing only in
unissued note form, pending more people's full attainment of OT VI & VII.

     In the early '70s the bottom was found with the discoveries of exactly
what psychosis was and the development of processes to handle it. This was
outside the scope of organizations at the time and is not in general use; but
it did finalize the task of undercutting low enough to include all spiritual
and mental materials, then, within the subject of Scientology, in a state of
applicability.

     Many people believe that Scientology materials contain mainly processes.
They think of Scientology as processing. This is a very narrow view. It is
understandable enough as processing is the way out for them. But this neglects
the more considerable materials which deal with basics and fundamentals;
processes are only one use of these.

     Other people, having gotten their smallest toe damp as an HAS then wander
off to other fields looking for answers, whereas had they taken Dianetics or
Scientology Grade training, to say nothing of the Saint Hill Briefing Course,
they would have found more fundamentals than exist in all other subjects
combined, a fact which any advanced student of Scientology can confirm.

     Still others think that the "newest" is of course the most advanced and
are looking for new "processes" to be issued or new materials; whereas the
process to resolve their case was most likely issued in earlier years. An
amusing instance of this is one whole continental area where an exact set of
principles was isolated and exact processes released that handle that exact
national type; yet, waiting for something new because they did not know the
old, they were found earlier this year to be ignoring this rundown even on new
preclears and of course were having a hard time of it for those ARE the basic
processes for that continent, for those people DO have that barrier.

     For quite a while I have had the "hat of finder of lost tech". Whole
sections of knowledge drop out of view, whole arrays of processes (and
administrative principles) go out of use and preclears there and the
organization of the area sag; but recovery is swift the moment the "lost"
knowledge is pulled out of their own file cabinets and restored.

     Further, people in organizations are quite often at high case levels.
They have already experienced the bridging knowledge which connects the
subject to the man in the street. It is not new to THEM. They sometimes err in
believing it is not new to the world. Thus gaps are permitted to exist. The
solution is to recover the "lost" tech.

     But it is also true that many in organizations work very hard to keep the
knowledge bridge in. And do well in accomplishing it.

     Within the same civilization, many other subjects than Scientology exist.
Many of these other subjects are in a very primitive state while pretending a
very advanced position. Psychiatry and Psychology are a pair of these. Their
pretenses, inhumanities and even cruelties muddy up the field of the spirit
and mind. Because they produce negative or even damaging results and because
they were "authority" before Scientology began to guide the field toward saner
and more civilized levels, Scientology's task of handling the public is made
far more difficult than if the public had not been so harmed and made
suspicious of the field of the mind. Yet the most mind-wrenching problems
Psychiatry and Psychology practitioners think they have (they have not
confronted the real ones) give way before the lowest most pedestrian levels of
Scientology. There is an amusing story of a Scientologist who attended a
social meeting of Psychiatrists and Psychologists and listened to them for a
while as they moaned

				      202


about their patients and their own cases and then, being compassionate, began
to explain to them in a sort of technical baby talk the nature and resolution
of these "vast" "unsolvable" "problems". As he took no offense at their
ignorant arrogance which first greeted him and as he did seem to have a grasp
of their troubles, they kept him up until four AM going over their "problems"
in detail and gave him more and more absorbed attention and began to cognite. 
They were very tame and very respectful when he left, certain they had heard
the guru of all time: and this is amusing because he was not a trained auditor
in any sense of the word and had only read a few Scientology books! Yet to
them he was their dean as a professional by comparative and sensible
knowledge. Many Scientologists have had similar experiences. In the field of
Scientology Admin tech a staff member who had not had an Org Exec Course but
had been hatted in HCO went home for a vacation. His father who, like some
fathers, was certain his son was stupid, permitted him, with misgivings, to
reorganize the administration of his medical clinic along Scientology lines.
The son trained the small staff for only a week, lines began to whizz,
patients began to get handled, records went straight, income rose and the
father became absolutely convinced that his son was the brightest
organizational genius in the country; yet in the org they had considered he
had a long way to go to be a good Ethics Officer! Gives you some comparative
idea of where the lowest rudimentary levels of Scientology sit in relation to
current technologies.

     Above such small bits of fringe information the bulk of Scientology
knowledge towers into mountains. It is accessible, in the main, to those who
seek it. The only barriers are usually their own lack of command of their own
language and the misconceptions of study ground into them from kindergarten
on. Means of solving these are also available and are daily applied to
countless newcomers over the world.

     The actual barrier in the society is a failure to practice truth. Living
lives of white lies, they find it difficult to grasp that truth actually
exists. This can hang on as a habit during the first studies of a student and
he can defeat himself utterly by continuing a dishonesty in his study --
skipping this, not doing that. For Scientology is the road to truth and he who
would follow it must take true steps.

     Some, seeing out of their own ambitious eyes and as jealous of any
imagined rival as any ferocious boy friend, seek to assert that Scientology is
interested in healing. This is something like saying that a Cadillac engineer
is interested only in window polish. For when you begin to handle the
causative force in Man he often also gets well. The "proofs" of supposing
Scientology is a healing activity are abundant enough if one sees the recovery
lists in any org. But they were not processed to heal them, only to free them.
A recent example of this occurred when a preclear broke her ankle and was
given medical treatment. Naturally the org was anxious to get on with her
program of processing and the ankle injury was in the way. After weeks in
medical hands with the ankle getting worse, the engram of the injury was run
out, the ankle got well and the person was again being routinely processed a
few days later. The auditor could be said to have been engaged in healing. All
he was doing was getting a body difficulty out of his road so he could get on
with it.

     Recently, having found bottom on the mind and spirit some years ago, I
have been looking into physical nutrition and biochemistry. These latter
levels lie below the spirit and mind and could be loosely considered to be an
undercut as they do impede spiritual gain.

     Many people are mainly fixated on the body and living as they do in an
intensely materialistic society, they are caught between being a body in the
work-a-day world and achieving spiritual freedom. This is of course
paradoxical. The game of being a body is the only game they have in their
eyes. Thus if something is wrong with their body they manifest having heavy
problems and they are anxious at the thought of losing a body: in other words
they have a hidden standard of body health as their measure of spiritual
attainment which, though illogical, is where they are and what they are doing.

     Scientology has long pursued the firm policy of sending the sick to the
medical doctor. There is no place they can send the insane as to send them to
psychiatry would

				      203


be to condemn them to horror, and so orgs do not usually handle them at all as
they are not equipt to do so even when technically able.

     But the sick have been another matter. The gentlemanly thing to do was to
give the doctor his due and trust that he would respect the courtesy. Instead,
anxious for a total monopoly of health which he is quite incapable of
delivering especially in the USA, he seeks to eradicate all fancied rivals.
Thus this policy will one day come to an end. It is quite legal to heal by
spiritual means and even part of the law of most states and countries and,
indeed, was the sole province of religion for thousands of years before the
medical doctor came along. But this is no reason why Scientology would make
any effort to replace the medical doctor since he has considerable value in
the mechanics of bones and structural matters. The only place he falls down is
in handling general illnesses, especially of a chronic nature.

     Medicine has been overtaken in healing by nutritionists and biochemists.
They still seek to exclude these skills from their knowledge and experience.
Indeed, when demanding $46,000,000 to research heart disease from a not always
bright Congress in the U.S., medicine was contradicted by no less than the
head of Health, Education and Welfare who stated that their "research" as
planned did not include biochemistry, a rather strange omission since this is
the most result-filled field. It goes without mention that the demand also
excluded nutritional research. Many individual doctors are prone to attack any
patients they find "on vitamins" or who timidly mention Vitamin E. And one is
struck with the fact that heart disease is the largest income source, I
believe, of the doctor.

     Thus there is a blindness in medical circles to the most productive and
curative practices in the field of illness and thus, policy or not,
organizations will soon have to bend to public demand and route the bill to
doctors only when they have broken bones or need surgery to get the bullets or
steering wheels out, and all others to the nutritionist who DOES use all the
modern developments in food, vitamins, minerals and advanced biochemistry and
use them intelligently.

     An estimation of this latter field was therefore in order and I have for
some time now been engaged in an evaluation of it and a study of it.

     What I have found is that the field lacks coordination of its knowledge,
not just from nutritionist to nutritionist but in the works of the same
person. A tremendous amount of material has been brought forth in the last
three decades. It is in a state of near chaos.

     Liquefied grass and other dietary fads have become confused into the sober
routine subject of nutrition. Food fadism and nutritional knowledge are
interlocked in the public mind to such a degree that some unscrupulous fellow
who knows better could advise people to eat only tree bark and they
accommodatingly would. For instance there are books and books and books out
currently, by M.D.s and others who should have done their homework, inveighing
against "cholesterol": This is a biochemical composition of animal oils and
fats. They say it gets into the arteries and causes strokes and heart attacks.
Well, that is all very well. But did you also know that every glandular
secretion in the body, the secretions which keep one young and functioning are
ALL made by the glands from cholesterol? If people do not take in cholesterol
bearing foods they, by simple logic, could be seen to rapidly age and die.
What's wanted is the knowledge of how to keep cholesterol controlled not how
to take everyone off cholesterol. One would think the American Medical
Association owned shares in undertaking parlors.

     A coordination of actual knowledge in these fields of nutrition and
biochemistry is what is lacking. Apparently researchers are clever enough to
isolate materials but are not wise enough to coordinate them fact against fact
into an intelligible subject.

     While examining this scene I have found that nutrition and biochemistry
ARE the leaders, however. The subjects are actually arts and in a rather
primitive state. But illnesses still puzzling medicine are in many cases quite
old hat to the nutritionist.

				      204


     If one wanted further proof, medical organizations, especially in the US,
are fighting nutrition with their usual violence where their pocket book is
threatened -- black propaganda, government seizure orders and all the routine
mechanisms medicine has employed in its history to "safeguard" its interests
are in full play against the health food store and the vitamin counter. That
is enough to prove the point that nutrition is the leader in our contemporary
times where physical health body treatment is concerned.

     While the medical doctor and his psychiatry branch flood out the useless
and destructive "tranquilizers", the nutritionist hands out a couple tablets
of magnesium which actually cool a person off beautifully and far more
effectively without the physical damage carried by the tranquilizer.

     The medical doctor and his psychiatry branch gave the world its greatest
wave of drug addiction. Their friend the German-oriented psychologist, with
his man-is-animal teaching of the young and destruction of orthodox religion,
has given the world its greatest period of crime. They are on their way out
even though they are fighting a dirty and violent read-guard action. So why bet
on losers? They won't make it.

     Nutrition's star is rising into a blazing sun in the field of physical
treatment of the body. It is also wise enough to know and repeatedly state
that spiritual and mental stress MUST be handled before too much result can be
obtained, which is perfectly true.

     Thus I have going at this particular time a project of codification and
coordination of what is known in the fields of nutrition and biochemistry, not
to be wiser than they, but to get some order into this field so that its
potential can be more fully realized.

     This work is almost incidental to Scientology research. I am completing
something I started in 1945, which was a survey of biochemistry potentials in
order to decide a direction of research: did the mind monitor structure or
structure, as medicine thought, monitor the mind? The former was in 1945 found
to be the true case to an overwhelming degree.

     But at the same time, when people are so body fixated that they have
problems of a physical nature too intense to admit of any other consideration,
bringing them true power and freedom becomes difficult unless one pays some
attention to where their attention is fixated.

     Malnutrition, deficiencies in vitamins and minerals, chronic illnesses
and unhealing wounds are all needlessly distracting but they are nevertheless
distracting.

     There apparently exist easy ways to handle these things. There is no
sense in processing someone for a hundred hours only to find his only interest
is curing his headache and to discover that he has a headache because he is
allergic to bread and eats bread nearly as his sole diet! Or to find that the
overweight fellow is just getting processed to get his body thin and after
scores of hours discover he is living on candy bars and has been diabetic for
years! Not when you can simply take the former off bread and wheat and give
the latter some trivalent chromium and protein and put a guard on the candy
store. Make no mistake -- one CAN process over the top of these things and
even handle, for the spirit and mind dominate them. But why? It's far easier
to parallel the mind and get the distraction handled so one can THEN get to
why he got that way in the first place if he is still interested, though well.
One can do things the hard way or the easy way.

     So nutrition and biochemistry are vital subjects and, due to medical
influence, very badly neglected subjects even in the presence of positive and
even vital value.

     My current review of these is in the nature of an assist to processing.
As such, of course, they have to embrace the factors of predisposition to,
precipitation and prolongation of physical illness.

     It has already been established, prior to present records, while I was
working with the general field of life in 1945, and has been confirmed by
contemporary researchers

				      205


in nutrition and biochemistry that Stress is the basic cause in physical
illness. Thus, such nutritional research cannot supplant the handling of
stress. Further, conditions can exist where nutrition and biochemistry cannot
work at all until stress is relieved by processing. Therefore, in lower stages
of handling there is a band where thought and physical beingness tend to
merge. In this lower zone, assist type processing and nutritional or
biochemical aids seem to be simultaneously necessary. In such instances one
must alternate them or co-apply them.

     There are also a few deficiencies which produce manifestations quite
similar in appearance to insanity.

     Where the illness or injury is acute and severe immediate physical
attention is mandatory and can be assisted only by the lightest possible
address to the mental factors, perhaps as light as simply being comforting or
gentle. In a case such as a person in a long continued coma, where nutrition
is intravenous, processing is still possible by gently causing the person's
hand to make repeated contact on command with a pillow or the bed. Thus it can
be seen, processing can reach a long way down.

     Above all this physical level material of course, the subject has been
for a long time wrapped up. Persons continuing to play the body game limit
themselves in various ways and by the nature of life and this civilization
have their ups and downs even when well processed. If they have attained a
relatively high state as a bodied person they can however be rehabilitated,
usually simply by running out their overt acts and withholds and restoring
their exterior perception:  they are, however, despite their continued
physical beingness, quite capable of easily assuming their full potentials:
they usually prefer to go on with the game by imposing limitations, for
instance to continue using their eyes. One rarely sees them do the stunts and
tricks of the Indian fakir even where they can since they have risen above
exhibitionism or the need to overwhelm or prove things and they are of course
continuing to play the game of human being, since that is the main game they
have available around them.

     There is undoubtedly a considerable amount of neating up that I could do,
including making all materials more readily available, seeing to the
compilation of a very extensive dictionary of terms, filling in incidental
gaps where material may not have been fully recorded. These are difficulties
of a minor nature compared to the research in making the result attainable.

     It has been difficult working in a confused and, yes, even primitive
society that is starved for workable knowledge in the humanities. The very
condition that made it vital to seek out and release the material also made it
difficult to do the job in the first place.

     Scientology now has more than enough data and technology to handle even
the broad problems in the humanities. The main task now is getting it fully
used, and along this line there are hundreds of thousands working every day
around the world.

     Scientology is the fastest growing Religion on the planet by actual
surveys and statements by sociologists. And this is the more remarkable as in
this period orthodox Religions have shrunk before the materialistic onslaught
of our times.

     The materials of Scientology are the result of forty-three years of
search, coordination and application to millions. The organizations of
Scientology have been building and expanding for nineteen years (despite the
fears and hates and jealousies of this civilization) on five continents and
making it all the way, thanks to the magnificent people of Scientology.

     We are very rich in materials, in results and in the potential future.
Through our hardest times we have endured. Into our brightest times we are
expanding.

     These materials contain the full basics of the only game in the universe
where everyone wins, the game of triumphant life itself.

LRH:nt.jh
Copyright $c 1973
by L. Ron Hubbard					    L. RON HUBBARD
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED					    Founder
				      206




L. RON HUBBARD
Founder


Type = 11
iDate=2/8/73
Volnum=0
Issue=0
Rev=0
rDate=0/0/0
Addition=0
aDate=0/0/0
aRev=0
arDate=0/0/0

PEP


Remimeo

			 HUBBARD COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
		    Saint Hill Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex
			 HCO BULLETIN OF 2 AUGUST 1973
Remimeo
				      PEP

     I've been doing some research lately. That's mostly what I have been
doing. And while this is not the main line of research I thought I might
mention it in passing.

     Something like four centuries ago Man's diet began to undergo a radical
change. What he ate before that was European, Asian. Whole grain barley,
various proteins, various wheats and other foods were not necessarily abundant
but they made up a radically different diet than modern Man consumes.

     With the discovery of the New World, for the first time there was an
abundance of SUGAR. Up until then sugar came from a few scarce plants and
beehives and was far too expensive for any broad general consumption. But the
wealth of the West Indies was not really gold. It was the product of the sugar
cane: BROWN AND WHITE SUGAR.

     Also the Americas gave the world many new plants such as maize (the
African's "mealy meal"), the potato and other carbohydrates and today a
startlingly large amount of the European and African diet consists of plants
first found in America. Almost all these foods are mainly carbohydrate, which
is to say, low on protein.

     Thus Man's diet changed. And the changes were in the direction of abundant
Sugar and Carbohydrate and away from a high protein diet.

     And with this change, it could be said, there went Man's pep.

     Sugar is a deceptive thing.  It appears to give one energy. But it does
so by by-passing the body's production of its own sugar. Alcohol is also
deceptive. It apparently by-passes the ability to make sugar which is why it
messes up the liver. In other words sugar in abundance by-passed the basic
energy producing mechanisms of the body.

     Straight sugar makes the stomach and digestive processes alkaline. This
is the opposite to acid. Food needs acid to digest. Therefore, as just one
part of all this scene, when one doesn't eat protein and digest his food he
winds up in a state of malnutrition -- a general breakdown of body functions
due to lack of adequate nourishment.

     Sugar, that is supposed "to produce energy" does so only at the expense of
physical health for sugar does not build up a body, it only burns it up.

     The result of a heavy intake of sugar and carbohydrates is to feel tired
all the time -- no pep. A diet of candy bars and cokes may appear to put
energy there but eventually no body is left to burn it!

     Well, today they start little babies out on sugar and carbohydrate as an
"all right diet".  No protein.	The result is these fat babies you see
ballooning in their perambulators. They are starting life with two-and-a-half
strikes on them. The rest of the third strike is added by cokes and candy
bars. And there goes the old ball game. You get a civilization that is tired,
no endurance.

     The degeneration can be reversed if one knocks off the cokes and candy
bars and sugar in the coffee and tea and begins to concentrate on an intake of
a good percentage of protein. After a few weeks or months, one starts to feel
peppy. The old body has begun to build itself back.

				      207


     If one is going to run a car, he has to feed it the right fuel and oil.
If one is going to run a body it has to be fed the right food and that has to
include protein.

     We have seen aboard a lot of diet fads. That's what they were. "Eat
liquefied carrots and you will fly." "Chomp only Vitamin X and you will soar."
Well, bad diets like that give dieting a bad name like "crazy". We've had food
cranks around who only ate hazelnuts or Chinese herbs. Well, that's a
different subject entirely than what I'm talking about. I think those diets
shouldn't even be wished off on the birds.

     All I'm talking about is eating your chow instead of living off candy
bars, cokes and milk and sugared coffee.

     By eating your hamburger and vegetables and leaving alone the candy bars
and cokes, you will begin to build up a head of steam. It takes far longer for
actual food to build up into energy than it does sugar.

     Most of the bodies around got started off on a sugar-carbohydrate baby
formula and got to believing that if something tasted sweet it was good. Well,
cocaine probably tastes great too, but it won't build up a body and the pep it
imparts is very false indeed as it does so by ripping the body apart.

     Man's diet changed over the last four centuries. And he's now got a lot
of welfare and sick populations. And he sure pushes the stuff which got him
into that condition -- sugar and carbohydrates.

     America got even for being discovered and raped. She gave the world
hordes of new carbohydrates and principally she gave the world abundant raw
sugar. An interesting revenge.

							     L. RON HUBBARD
							     Founder
LRH:nt.ts
Copyright $c 1973
by L. Ron Hubbard
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
				      208




L. RON HUBBARD
Founder


Type = 11
iDate=10/8/73
Volnum=0
Issue=0
Rev=0
rDate=0/0/0
Addition=0
aDate=0/0/0
aRev=0
arDate=0/0/0

PTS HANDLING


Remimeo
A/Guardians
HCO Secs
E/Os
MAAs
Tech Secs
Ds of P
PTS Pack

			 HUBBARD COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
		    Saint Hill Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex

Remimeo 		HCO BULLETIN OF 10 AUGUST 1973
A/Guardians
HCO Secs
E/Os
MAAs
Tech Secs			 PTS HANDLING
Ds of P
PTS Pack	       (PTS = Potential Trouble Source)

     There are two stable data which anyone has to have, understand and KNOW
ARE TRUE in order to obtain results in handling the person connected to
suppressives.

     These data are:

     1.  That all illness in greater or lesser degree and all foul-ups stem
	 directly and only from a PTS condition.

     2.  That getting rid of the condition requires three basic actions: A.
	 Discover. B. Handle or disconnect.

     Persons called upon to handle PTS people can do so very easily, far more
easily than they believe. Their basic stumbling block is thinking that there
are exceptions or that there is other tech or that the two above data have
modifiers or are not sweeping. The moment a person who is trying to handle
PTSs gets persuaded there are other conditions or reasons or tech, he is at
once lost and will lose the game and not obtain results. And this is very too
bad because it is not difficult and the results are there to be obtained.

     To turn someone who may be PTS over to an auditor just to have him
mechanically audited may not be enough. In the first place this person may not
have a clue what is meant by PTS and may be missing all manner of technical
data on life and may be so overwhelmed by a suppressive person or group that
he is quite incoherent. Thus just mechanically doing a process may miss the
whole show as it misses the person's understanding of why it is being done.

     A PTS person is rarely psychotic. But all psychotics are PTS if only to
themselves. A PTS person may be in a state of deficiency or pathology which
prevents a ready recovery, but at the same time he will not fully recover
unless the PTS condition is also handled. For he became prone to deficiency or
pathological illness because he was PTS. And unless the condition is relieved,
no matter what medication or nutrition he may be given, he might not recover
and certainly will hot recover permanently. This seems to indicate that there
are "other illnesses or reasons for illness besides being PTS". To be sure
there are deficiencies and illnesses just as there are accidents and injuries.
But strangely enough the person himself precipitates them because being PTS
predisposes him to them. In a more garbled way, the medicos and nutritionists
are always talking about "stress" causing illness. Lacking full tech they yet
have an inkling that this is so because they see it is somehow true. They
cannot handle it. Yet they recognize it, and they state that it is a senior
situation to various illnesses and accidents. Well, we have the tech of this
in more ways than one.

     What is this thing called "stress"? It is more than the medico defines it
-- he usually says it comes from operational or physical shock and in this he
has too limited a view.

     A person under stress is actually under a suppression on one or more
dynamics.

     If that suppression is located and the person handles or disconnects, the
condition diminishes. If he also has all the engrams and ARC Breaks, problems,
overts and withholds audited out triple flow and if ALL such areas of
suppression are thus handled, the person would recover from anything caused by
"stress".

				      209


     Usually the person has insufficient understanding of life or any dynamic
to grasp his own situation. He is confused. He believes all his illnesses are
true because they occur in such heavy books!

     At some time he was predisposed to illness or accidents. When a serious
suppression then occurred he suffered a precipitation or occurrence of the
accident or illness, and then with repeated similar suppressions on the same
chain, the illness or tendency to accidents became prolonged or chronic.

     To say then that a person is PTS to his current environment would be very
limited as a diagnosis. If he continues to do or be something to which the
suppressive person or group objected he may become or continue to be ill or
have accidents.

     Actually the problem of PTS is not very complicated. Once you have
grasped the two data first given, the rest of it becomes simply an analysis of
how they apply to this particular person.

     A PTS person can be markedly helped in three ways:

     (a) gaining an understanding of the tech of the condition

     (b) discovering to what or to whom he is PTS

     (c) handling or disconnecting.

     Someone with the wish or duty to find and handle PTSs has an additional
prior step: He must know how to recognize a PTS and how to handle them when
recognized. Thus it is rather a waste of time to engage in this hunt unless
one has been checked out on all the material on suppressives and PTSs and
grasps it without misunderstoods. In other words the first step of the person
is to get a grasp of the subject and its tech. This is not difficult to do; it
may be a bit more difficult to learn to run an E-Meter and considerably more
difficult to learn how to list for items, but there again this is possible and
is much easier than trying to grope around guessing.

     With this step done, a person has no real trouble recognizing PTS people
and can have success in handling them which is very gratifying and rewarding.

     Let us consider the easiest level of approach:

     i) Give the person the simpler HCO Bs on the subject and let him study
them so that he knows the elements like "PTS" and "Suppressive". He may just
cognite right there and be much better. It has happened.

     ii) Have him discuss the illness or accident or condition, without much
prodding or probing, that he thinks now may be the result of suppression. He
will usually tell you it is right here and now or was a short time ago and
will be all set to explain it (without any relief) as stemming from his
current environment or a recent one. If you let it go at that he would simply
be a bit unhappy and not get well as he is discussing usually a late lock that
has a lot of earlier material below it.

     iii) Ask when he recalls first having that illness or having such
accidents. He will at once begin to roll this back and realize that it has
happened before. You don't have to be auditing him as he is all too willing to
talk about this in a most informal manner. He will get back to some early this-
lifetime point usually.

     iv) Now ask him who it was. He will usually tell you promptly. And, as you
are not really auditing him and he isn't going backtrack and you are not
trying to do more than key him out, you don't probe any further.

     v) You will usually find that he has named a person to whom he is still
connected! So you ask him whether he wants to handle or disconnect. Now as the
sparks will really fly in his life if he dramatically disconnects and if he
can't see how he

				      210


can, you persuade him to begin to handle on a gradient scale. This may consist
of imposing some slight discipline on him such as requiring him to actually
answer his mail or write the person a pleasant good roads good weather note or
to realistically look at how he estranged them. In short what is required in
the handling is a low gradient. All you are trying to do is MOVE THE PTS
PERSON FROM EFFECT OVER TO SLIGHT GENTLE CAUSE.

     vi) Check with the person again, if he is handling, and coach him along,
always at a gentle good roads and good weather level and no H E and R (Human
Emotion and Reaction) if you please.

     That is a simple handling. You can get complexities such as a person
being PTS to an unknown person in his immediate vicinity that he may have to
find before he can handle or disconnect. You can find people who can't
remember more than a few years back. You can find anything you can find in a
case. But simple handling ends when it looks pretty complex. And that's when
you call in the auditor.

     But this simple handling will get you quite a few stars in your crown.
You will be amazed to find that while some of them don't instantly recover,
medication, vitamins, minerals will now work when before they wouldn't. You
may also get some instant recovers but realize that if they don't you have not
failed.

     The auditor can do "3 S&Ds" after this with much more effect as he isn't
working with a completely uninformed person.

     "3 S&Ds" only fail because of wrong items or because the auditor did not
then put in triple rudiments on the items and then audit them out as engrams
triple flow.

     A being is rather complex. He may have a lot of sources of suppression.
And it may take a lot of very light auditing to get him up to where he can do
work on suppressives since these were, after all, the source of his overwhelm.
And what he did to THEM might be more important than what they did to HIM but
unless you unburden HIM he may not get around to realizing that.

     You can run into a person who can only be handled by Expanded Dianetics.

     But you have made an entrance and you have stirred things up and gotten
him more aware and just that way you will find he is more at cause.

     His illness or proneness to accidents may not be slight. You may succeed
only to the point where he now has a chance, by nutrition, vitamins, minerals,
medication, treatment, and above all, auditing, of getting well. Unless you
jogged this condition, he had no chance at all: for becoming PTS is the first
thing that happened to him on the subject of illness or accidents.

     Further, if the person has had a lot of auditing and yet isn't
progressing too well, your simple handling may all of a sudden cause him to
line up his case.

     So do not underestimate what you or an auditor can do for a PTS. And
don't sell PTS tech short or neglect it. And don't continue to transfer or
push off or even worse tolerate PTS conditions in people.

     You CAN do something about it.

     And so can they.

							     L. RON HUBBARD
							     Founder
LRH:nt.rd
Copyright $c 1973
by L. Ron Hubbard
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
				      211




L. RON HUBBARD
Founder


Type = 11
iDate=15/10/73
Volnum=0
Issue=0
Rev=0
rDate=0/0/0
Addition=0
aDate=0/0/0
aRev=0
arDate=0/0/0

C/S Series 87
NULLING AND F/Ning PREPARED LISTS


Remimeo

			 HUBBARD COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
		    Saint Hill Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex

			HCO BULLETIN OF 15 OCTOBER 1973
Remimeo
				 C/S Series 87

		       NULLING AND F/Ning PREPARED LISTS

    A prepared list is one which is issued in an HCOB and is used to correct
cases. There are many of these. Notable amongst them is C/S 53 and its
corrections.

    It is customary for the auditor to be required to F/N such a list. This
means on calling it that the whole list item by item is to F/N.

    Now and then you get the extreme oddity of a list selected to exactly
remedy the case not reading but not F/Ning.

    Of course this might happen if the list did not apply to the case (such as
an OT prepared list being used on a Grade IV, heaven forbid). In the case of
lists to correct listing, and in particular the C/S 53 series, it is nearly
impossible for this situation to occur.

    A C/S will very often see that the auditor has assessed the list on the
pc, has gotten no reads, and the list did not F/N.

    A "reasonable" C/S (heaven forbid) lets this go by.

    Yet he has before him first-class evidence that the auditor

    1.	Has out-TRs in general,

    2.	Has no impingement whatever with TR-1,

    3.	Is placing his meter in the wrong position in the auditing session so
	that he cannot see it, the pc and his worksheet,

    4.	That the auditor's eyesight is bad.

    One or more of these conditions certainly exist.

    To do nothing about it is to ask for catastrophe after catastrophe with
pcs and to have one's confidence in one's own C/Sing deteriorate badly.

    An amazing number of auditors cannot make a prepared list read for one of
the above reasons.

    Putting in suppress, invalidation or misunderstood words on the list will
either get a read or the list will F/N.

    The moral of this is that prepared lists that do not read F/N. When
prepared lists that do not read do not F/N or when the auditor cannot get a
prepared list to F/N, serious auditing errors are present which will defeat a
C/S.

    In the interest of obtaining results and being merciful on pcs, the wise
C/S never lets this situation go by without finding what it is all about.

							L. RON HUBBARD
LRH:rhc.nt.rd						Founder
Copyright $c 1973
by L. Ron Hubbard
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
				      213




L. RON HUBBARD
Founder


Type = 11
iDate=30/8/71
Volnum=0
Issue=2
Rev=4
rDate=6/2/74
Addition=0
aDate=0/0/0
aRev=0
arDate=0/0/0

PC COMPLETIONS -- SECOND REVISION


EFFECTIVE AFTER 1st Thursday in
February 1974
Remimeo

			 HUBBARD COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
		    Saint Hill Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex

		       HCO BULLETIN OF 30 AUGUST 1971 RC
				    Issue II
			 (REPLACED by BTB 30 Aug 71RD)
			    REVISED 21 OCTOBER 1973
			    REVISED 23 OCTOBER 1973
Remimeo 		    REVISED 6 FEBRUARY 1974
		     (Only change is addition of No. 21a.)

			EFFECTIVE AFTER 1st Thursday in
				 February 1974

		       PC COMPLETIONS -- SECOND REVISION

     This second revised issue cancels all earlier and any local org or
continental issues assigning Paid Completion Points.

     To maintain uniformity any right of orgs or continental areas to assign
completion points is revoked. Orgs may request additions or amendments when
required but such become effective only when officially issued by Flag.

     For statistical purposes an audited completion must be PAID and have
attested with an F/N VGIs and written a success story for the action. This
does NOT mean that you would interrupt an auditing rundown to send the pc to
Examiner and attest and success on each step of a rundown where completion
points are awarded for separate steps (e.g. Drug RD is one attest when full RD
completed. One then counts total points for the 3 sections of the RD).

     Any quickie or incompetent completion falsifies the statistic and is
subject to fine or penalty.

     Changes below are in this type style.

     The completions list follows:

     1.  Interiorization Rundown -- 1.

     2.  Life Repair -- 1.

     3.  Student Rescue Intensive -- 1.

     4.  Progress Pgm -- 1.

     5.  Hubbard Consultant (HC) List (Data Series) -- 1.

     6.  Word Clearing Method One -- 2.

     7.  C/S Series 54. (Pc Assessment Form and handling) -- 2.

     8.  Drugs, Medicine, Alcohol Class VIII Remedy (3 way recall, secondaries,
	 engrams) -- 1.

     9.  Pains, Somatics, Emotions each reading drug fully handled by R3R
	 Triple -- 1. (E.g. 5 drugs fully handled = 5 points. Count this way
	 to conform with majority interpretation.)

    10.  Prior Assmt to Drugs -- 1.

    11.  Dianetics Completion -- 5.

				      214


    12.  ARC Str Wire Triple Exp -- 3 (no credit singles).

    13.  Each Expanded Grade -- 5 (no credit single or triple).

    14.  HCO B 24 July 69 -- 1.

    15.  Touch and Dianetic Assists to fully handle injury or postoperative or
	 post-birth, etc -- 2.

    16.  Auditing repair -- 1/2.

    17.  GF Method 5 handled if not part of a repair -- 1/2.

    18.  GF 40 Expanded fully handled, lists and engrams, by itself whether
	 part of another program or not -- 3.

    19.  C/S Series 53 handled to F/N on all items (F/Ning assessment) whether
	 part of another program or not -- 1.

    19a. Full false TA RD successfully resolved -- 2.

    20.  L3B Rundown -- 2.

    21.  PTS Rundown (full rundown) -- 2.

    21a. Introspection Rundown -- 2.

    22.  Study Correction List fully handled -- 2.

    23.  Int Rundown Correction List fully handled -- 1/2.

    24.  Word Clearing Correction List fully handled -- 1/2.

    25.  Objective Processes (full battery to get pc off or handle Drugs
	 before Drug RD) -- 3.

    26.  Each Expanded Dianetics separate RD -- 1.

    26a. Expanded Dianetics Rundown fully completed (in addition to single
	 points for each part) -- 5.

    27.  Incidental Rundowns such as Money Process if contained in an LRH HCO B

    28.  12 1/2 Hour Intensive -- 5 points for each completed within the week.

    PENALTY: 1 point loss for every percent below 90% F/N VGIs Examiner for the
previous day. Example: 75% only F/N VGIs = 15 point loss.

    GAIN: Add one point for every percent above 90% F/N VGIs at Examiner.

    For every 9 points made 1 point may be added for staff auditing providing
it is actually delivered.

    Items such as L-1C and L-4B are part of the session or action in which
they are used, or part of an auditing repair pgm, and are covered by the
points for those actions.

    Student Co-auditing:  There are no points calculated or used for student
co-auditing completions (except only as stated in the Student Completions HCO
B) or for free public completions done by students or public as these can be
part of student completion requirements.

				      215


				       SH

    29.  Power Set-up GF + 40 Method 5 and Handle -- 2.

    30.  POWER Singe -- 5.

    31.  POWER TRIPLE -- 15.

    32.  Complete Your Case items as per regular auditing as above. Added
	 Bonus for case flying and fully handled -- 5.

				       AO

    33.  Set-up for Solo or other advanced level: as per regular auditing
	 above.

    33a. Case truly flying and ready for R6EW auditing. Added Bonus -- 5.

    33b. Successful Case Consultation -- 1.

    34.  R6EW Solo Auditing Completion -- 5.

    35.  Clearing Course Solo Auditing Completion -- 10.

    36.  OT I Solo Auditing Completion -- 5.

    37.  OT II Solo Auditing Completion -- 5.

    38.  OT III Solo Auditing Completion -- 10.

    39.  OT III Exp Solo Auditing Completion -- 5.

    40.  OT IV Audited Section Completion -- 5.

	       Solo Aud Section Completion -- 5.

    41.  OT V Solo Auditing Completion -- 5.

    42.  OT VI Solo Auditing Completion -- 5.

    43.  OT VII Audited Section Completion -- 5.

	       Solo Aud Section Completion -- 3.

    44.  OT VIII Points to be assigned when released.

				   PENALTIES
			       ALL ORG PENALTIES

    45.  For every pc in the area who is refunded after auditing (after this
	 HCO B is in effect). MINUS 25.

    46.  (Excepting AOs.) For every pc in the area who does not buy and pay
	 for further auditing to complete the grade or cycle he is on (after
	 this HCO B is in effect). MINUS 10.

    47.  For every pc who is backlogged more than one week. MINUS 5.

				  SH PENALTIES

    48.  For every pc who does not go on to Power after cleanup and case
	 handling (after this HCO B is in effect). MINUS 10.

				      216


    49.  Every pc who does not successfully complete his Power including Va
	 within three months after being enrolled on any part of it (after
	 date of this HCO B). MINUS 25.

    50.  Any pc found to have been run on Power more than once. MINUS 10.

    51.  Any Grade Va who has not enrolled on the R6EW Course within 3 months.
	 Retroactive to start of org and subtracted each week. MINUS 1.

				  AO PENALTIES

    52.  "Nothing found" and no progress on any R6EW, Clear or OT Grade. (Means
	 Drug RD was unflat and Pre-OT not properly set up but put on CC or OT
	 Grades or both.) (Effective after date of this HCO B.) MINUS 25.

    53.  Every R6EW, Clear or Pre-OT in AO's zone or area who has not signed up
	 for next grade within 3 months of finishing his last one up to OT VI
	 (effective FROM DATE OF FOUNDING OF ORG AND SUBTRACTED
	 EACH WEEK). MINUS 1.

    54.  Every Solo Student who does not audit for one week while assigned
	 auditing on R6EW, Clear or on a Grade. (Effective from date of this
	 HCO B.) MINUS 10.

    55.  Any R6EW, Clear or Pre-OT who leaves while on the next grade which is
	 incomplete. (Effective from date of this HCO B.) MINUS 5.

    56.  Solo Auditor backlogged more than 24 hours for a Case Consultation or
	 Review. (Effective from date of this HCO B.) MINUS 5.

    57.  Any evidence of an R6EW, Clear or Pre-OT being evaluated for by
	 giving him the EP, being invalidated on his gains or assigned unjust
	 Ethics penalty by another student or staff member. (Effective from
	 date of this HCO B.) MINUS 50.

    58.  Any AO student now on SOLO Auditing who is found not to be able to
	 fully operate a meter, run engrams or who has errors traceable to
	 False TA HCO B not being applied. (Effective from date of this HCO
	 B.) MINUS 25.

     Points for any omitted or added rundowns will have points issued on
request by Training and Services Aide.

							L. RON HUBBARD
							Founder
LRH:nt.rd.jh
Copyright $c 1971, 1973, 1974
by L. Ron Hubbard
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

[The original issue of the above HCO B which is in Volume VII, Page 371, was
revised by staff on 16 November 1972. It was then revised by LRH on 21 October
1973, adding the penalty sections and making the changes in this type style. A
further revision by LRH on 23 October 1973 added the words "and pay for" and
"or cycle" to number 46 and "R6EW, Clear or" to number 52. The 6 February 1974
revision adds number 21a to the completions list.]

				      217




L. RON HUBBARD
Founder


Type = 11
iDate=11/11/73
Volnum=0
Issue=0
Rev=0
rDate=0/0/0
Addition=0
aDate=0/0/0
aRev=0
arDate=0/0/0

PRECLEAR DECLARE? PROCEDURE


Remimeo
Pc Examiners

			 HUBBARD COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
		    Saint Hill Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex

			HCO BULLETIN OF 11 NOVEMBER 1973
Remimeo
Pc Examiners
			  PRECLEAR DECLARE? PROCEDURE

	   (Reference: HCO PL 30 May 70, "Cutatives"
		       HCO PL 10 May 70, "Single Declare"
		       HCO B  24 Feb 72, C/S Series 71A,
					 "Word Clearing OCAs".)

     In order to ensure the results of Scientology, it is vital that Examiner
Declare? procedure is known and invariably applied.

     1.  Pc Examiner checks the folder to ensure that all processes run to EP
	 correctly with NO Out Tech uncorrected.

     2.  When folder passed as OK, get Qual I and I to call Tech Services for
	 the pc to be sent to the Pc Examiner.

     3.  Pc Examiner shows pc a written statement of the Ability Attained from
	 the Grade Chart or HCO B for that particular Grade or completion and
	 has the pc read it.

     4.  Ask pc: "Do you have any doubts or reservations concerning attesting
	 to (whatever the attest is)?" If the Examiner gets an instant read on
	 the question, he does not ask the attest question, and sends the
	 folder back to the C/S.

     5.  If no instant read, ask the attest question, "Would you like to
	 attest to _______?"

     6.  If pc F/N VGIs on the Declare, indicate the F/N and end off the cycle.

     Note: The presence of any Bad Indicators, or no F/N, or high or low TA or
     read on the "Doubts" question is the immediate signal to end off the
     action smoothly and quickly.

     Absolute honesty must be maintained by a Pc Examiner on every cycle
handled. Remember: The integrity of Scientology and the hope for Beings in
this Universe is entrusted to Examinations.

							L. RON HUBBARD
							Founder
LRH:nt.jh
Copyright $c 1973
by L. Ron Hubbard
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
				      218




L. RON HUBBARD
Founder


Type = 11
iDate=15/11/73
Volnum=0
Issue=0
Rev=1
rDate=4/12/73
Addition=0
aDate=0/0/0
aRev=0
arDate=0/0/0

FEAR OF PEOPLE LIST -- R


Remimeo
Qual
Tech

			 HUBBARD COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
		    Saint Hill Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex

		       HCO BULLETIN OF 15 NOVEMBER 1973R
Remimeo 		    REVISED 4 DECEMBER 1973
Qual
Tech			 (Revisions in this type style)

			    FEAR OF PEOPLE LIST -- R

     TO BE DONE ONLY BY AUDITORS WHOSE EYESIGHT, METER POSITION AND TR 1 HAVE
SEEN CHECKED OUT AND WHO CAN THEREFORE MAKE A LIST READ ON A PC, SEE THE READ
AND MARK IT.

This action is primarily for use in Qual to handle timid tech staff who back
off from handling thetans or people or pcs or psychos or individuals. It may
also be used on public and as part of Integrity Processing.

				ASSESSMENT LISTS

     TERMINALS LIST			  EMOTIONS LIST

People			   _______	 Blaming (item assessed)	_______

Thetans 		   _______	 Failures with	"		_______

Pcs			   _______	 Apathetic about  "		_______

Psychos 		   _______	 Neglect of  "			 _______

Individuals		   _______	 Hopelessness regarding  "	_______

Others			   _______	 Propitiation toward  " 	_______

Girls			   _______	 Terrified of  "		_______

Women			   _______	 Desperation about  "		_______

Men			   _______	 Fear of "			_______

Boys			   _______	 Afraid of creating a bad
					 effect on  "			_______
Children		   _______
					 Afraid of consequences
Addicts 		   _______	 regarding "			_______

PTSes			   _______	 Fear of invalidation by "	_______

SPs			   _______
					 Fear of doing something
Older People		   _______	 wrong with "			_______

Seniors 		   _______	 Fear of being found out
					 by  "				_______
Important People	   _______
					 Fear of failure with  "	_______

					 Afraid to take responsibility
					 for  " 			_______

					 Anxious about	"		_______

					 Pretense concerning "		_______

					 Unwilling to help  "		_______

					 Contempt for  "		_______

					 Anger at  "			_______

					 Hatred of  "			_______

					 Suppressing  " 		_______

				      219


				 HANDLING STEPS

1.  Assess the TERMINALS LIST.

2.  Using best reading item from the TERMINALS LIST assess the EMOTIONS LIST.
    (Example:  If "Girls" gave best read on TERMINALS LIST, then assess
    EMOTIONS LIST using "Girls" "Blaming Girls _______" "Failures with Girls
    _______" etc.)

3.  Take best reading item from EMOTIONS LIST assessment. Run item R3-R triple
    to F/N Cog VGIs and erasure.

4.  Proceed to handle (R3-R) each reading item from EMOTIONS LIST assessment in
    descending order of reads (largest to smallest read).

5.  Repeat 2 to 4 with each reading item from the original TERMINALS
    assessment.

6.  When all reading items from both assessments handled, reassess the
    TERMINALS LIST and repeat steps 2 to 5 on any items now reading.

7.  This may be continued to an F/Ning Terminals List but somewhere along the
    line pc should have major cognition with wide F/N and statement to the
    effect that he no longer has any fear or back-off from people, thetans,
    pcs, psychos, or individuals. End off at such a point.

8.  Note that the charge on a terminal could be blown on R3-R on major reading
    item from the Emotions List. In such a case the other reading items from
    the emotions assessment would F/N when taken up. This would be most likely
    to occur if "Fear of..." is run to good cog and then further reading
    "Fear" or "Afraid of" items are attempted.

9.  Should the person R/S on assessment or handling just continue the action
    through to EP in the usual way but circle the R/S, note in front of folder
    and on Auditor Report for later handling.

10. Whether done in Qual or Tech the assessment sheets, worksheets and auditor
    report sheets must go into the pc folder and be recorded on the summary
    sheet.

    EP of the action is thetans or people or pcs or psychos or individuals,
etc solved and the person gotten off of any irrational back-off. We are in the
thetan and people business after all.

						    L. RON HUBBARD
						    Founder
LRH:nt.rd
Copyright $c 1973
by L. Ron Hubbard
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
				      220




L. RON HUBBARD
Founder


Type = 11
iDate=20/11/73
Volnum=0
Issue=1
Rev=0
rDate=0/0/0
Addition=0
aDate=0/0/0
aRev=0
arDate=0/0/0

Reissued from
21st ADVANCED CLINICAL COURSE
TRAINING DRILLS


Remimeo
All Levels
Flag Internes
LRH Comms

			 HUBBARD COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
		    Saint Hill Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex

			HCO BULLETIN OF 20 NOVEMBER 1973
				    Issue I
Remimeo
All Levels
Flag Internes
LRH Comms
				 Reissued from
			 21st ADVANCED CLINICAL COURSE
				TRAINING DRILLS

NAME: Anti-Q and A TR.

COMMANDS: Basically, "Put that (object) on my knee." (A book, piece of paper,
ashtray, etc can be used for object.)

POSITION: Student and Coach sitting facing each other at a comfortable distance
and one at which the Coach can reach the Student's knee with ease.

PURPOSE:

(a)  To train Student in getting a Pc to carry out a command using formal
     communication NOT Tone 40.

(b)  To enable the Student to maintain his TRs while giving commands.

(c)  To train the Student to not get upset with a Pc under formal auditing.

MECHANICS: Coach selects small object (book, ashtray, etc) and holds it in his
hand.

TRAINING STRESS: Student is to get the Coach to place the object that he has in
his hand on the knee of the Student. The Student may vary his commands as long
as he maintains the Basic Intention (not Tone 40) to get the Coach to place
the object on the Student's knee. The Student is not allowed to use any
physical enforcement, only verbal commands. The Coach should try and get the
Student to Q and A. He may say anything he wishes to try and get him off the
track of getting the command executed. The Student may say what he wishes in
order to get the command done, as long as it directly applies in getting the
Coach to place the object on the Student's knee.

     The Coach flunks for:

     (a) Any communication not directly concerned with getting the command
	 executed.

     (b) Previous TR.

     (c) Any upsetness demonstrated by Student.

						    L. RON HUBBARD
						    Founder
LRH:nt.rd
Copyright $c 1958, 1959, 1973
by L. Ron Hubbard
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
				      221




L. RON HUBBARD
Founder


Type = 11
iDate=20/11/73
Volnum=0
Issue=2
Rev=0
rDate=0/0/0
Addition=0
aDate=0/0/0
aRev=0
arDate=0/0/0

C/S Series 89
F/N WHAT YOU ASK OR PROGRAM


Remimeo
All Levels
Flag Internes

			 HUBBARD COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
		    Saint Hill Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex

			HCO BULLETIN OF 20 NOVEMBER 1973
Remimeo 			    Issue II
All Levels
Flag Internes			 C/S Series 89
			  F/N WHAT YOU ASK OR PROGRAM

	    Ref: HCO B 23 Dec 72 Integrity Processing Series 20
		 HCO B 21 Nov 73 The Cure of Q and A

    When an Auditor asks one question but F/Ns something else it is simply a
version of Q and A.

    Example:  AUDITOR: Do you have a problem? PC: (ramble-ramble) I was
thinking of last night's dinner. AUDITOR: That F/Ns.

    Every few folders you pick up, if you can find examples of this:

    The Auditor is not trained not to Q and A.

    He is NOT getting answers to his questions.

    When the Auditor starts something (such as a question or process) he MUST
F/N what he started EVEN THOUGH HE DID SOMETHING ELSE DURING IT AND GOT AN F/N
ON SOMETHING ELSE. HE MUST F/N THE ORIGINAL ACTION.

    The result can be:

    (a) Missed W/H phenomena.
    (b) High or low TA an hour after the Pc "F/Ned at Examiner".
    (c) A stalled case.
    (d) An undone program.
    (e) An unhandled pc.
    (f) Continual need for repair programs.

    To get this disease out of an HGC requires that Auditors go through an
Anti-Q and A handling.

				  C/S Q AND A

    C/Ses can also Q and A. They simply handle whatever the pc originates to
the Examiner or Auditor, over and over and on and on.

    The result is:

    A.	Incomplete Programs.
    B.	Tripled or quadrupled C/S effort as the case never seems to get solved.
    C.	Loads of repair programs.

    Yet a C/S who does it will never look for it as THE primary error being
committed.

    The remedy is to have the C/S do an Anti-Q and A program.

LRH:nt.jh
Copyright $c 1973				    L. RON HUBBARD
by L. Ron Hubbard				    Founder
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

[IP Series 20 has been converted to BTB 23 Dec 72R, IP Series 17R, Volume IX,
Page 289.]

				      222




L. RON HUBBARD
Founder


Type = 11
iDate=21/11/73
Volnum=0
Issue=0
Rev=0
rDate=0/0/0
Addition=0
aDate=0/0/0
aRev=0
arDate=0/0/0

THE CURE OF Q AND A
MAN'S DEADLIEST DISEASE


Remimeo
All Auditors
All Levels
Flag Internes
LRH Comms

			 HUBBARD COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
		    Saint Hill Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex

			HCO BULLETIN OF 21 NOVEMBER 1973
Remimeo
All Auditors
All Levels
Flag Internes
LRH Comms
			      THE CURE OF Q AND A

			    MAN'S DEADLIEST DISEASE

     Q and A is a dreadful malady which has to be cured before an Auditor (or
an Administrator) can get results.

			     THE DISEASE OF Q AND A

     Auditor: Spot that wall. Pc: My neck hurts. Auditor: Has it been hurting
long? Pc: Ever since I was in the Army. Auditor: Are you in the Army now? Pc:
No but my father is. Auditor: Have you been in comm with your father lately?
Pc: I miss him. Auditor: That F/Ned, end of process. The Auditor has failed to
note that he never got the pc to spot the wall or that he has run the pc all
over the track flattening nothing, restimulating the pc.

			       A DEADLY BACTERIA

     When an Auditor asks a Question and F/Ns something else he can mess a pc
up badly.

     Auditor: Do you have a withhold? That reads. Pc: It's just a 2D
perversion. What I was really thinking about was my raise I got today.
Auditor: That F/Ns. Pc (later in session): You run a lousy org here. Charge
too much.... Auditor in mystery, caves in. THAT IS SIMPLY Q AND A IN ANOTHER
COAT.

			    ADMINISTRATIVE DELIRIUM

     When an Administrator Qs and As it puts him straight down the org board
and into a spin.

     LRH Comm: You have a target here to move the file cases. Staff Member: I
didn't understand some of the words. LRH Comm: Here's a word clearing order for
Qual. (Next day.) LRH Comm: Did you go to the word clearer? Staff Member: I'm
on Medical Lines now. LRH Comm: How long have you been ill? Staff Member:
Since the Ethics Officer was mean to me. LRH Comm: I'll go see about your
ethics folder....

     And there goes the old soccer game. NO TARGET DONE BECAUSE THE EXECUTIVE
COULD NOT HANDLE Q AND A.

				  C/S Q AND A

     Case Supervisors (blush for the thought) are often guilty of Q and A and
infect their area with its bacteria.

     Pc to Examiner: I have a cold. C/S: Run spot spots to cure his cold. Pc to
Auditor: It's really I'm PTS to my Aunt. C/S: Do PTS RD on Aunt. Pc to
Examiner: It's really my foot. C/S: Do touch assist on foot....

     What C/S ever got a pc's program done that way?

				      223


     Where you find undone programs in folders you find goofing Auditors and Q
and A type Case Supervisors.

				   FUMIGATION

     There are definite cures for this dreadful and disgraceful malady. It
must be handled as it results in a breaking out of bogged cases and blows,
high and low TAs and very red faces when the Paid Completions Stat is counted.

     The Cure is pretty violent and very few have courage enough to go through
with it as their confront at the beginning is too low, what with their no-
interest items left in restim on their drug rundowns or no TRs to begin with
or no Supervisor when they took the Course.

     The direct result of all this is a symptom known as "patty-cake". This is
a child game of clapping hands and putting palms together and has meant since
1950 Dianetics NOT HANDLING CASES. The signs of patty-cake are a weak
slouching posture, bags under the eyes, a bowed spine and hangdog pathetic
eyes. The respiration is quick and panicky, the palms sweat and one starts at
pins dropping in the next room.

     However for those sturdy souls who want to Clear a planet and who really
want to handle things they can prop themselves up in bed and somehow get
through this program:

1.   This HCOB starrate.						_______

2.   HCOB 24 May 62 "Q and A" starrate					_______

3.   HCOB 13 Dec 61 "Varying Sec Check Questions".			_______

4.   HCOB 22 Feb 62 "Withholds, Missed and Partial".			_______

5.   HCOB 29 Mar 63 "Summary of Security Checking".			_______

6.   HCOB  7 Apr 64 "All Levels -- Q and A".				_______

7.   TRs the Hard Way.							_______

8.   Upper Indoc a Rough Way.						_______

9.   Handling the Auditor's, C/S's or Administrator's Not Done or No
     Interest item Drug RD.						_______

10.  35 hours Op Pro by Dup in Co-Audit receiving and giving.		_______

11.  HCOB 29 July 63 "Saint Hill Special Briefing Course Training
     Drills", Section "Q and A Drill".					_______

12.  HCOB 20 Nov 73 Issue I Anti-Q and A Drill. 			_______

13.  HCOB 20 Nov 73 Issue II "F/N What You Ask or Program".		_______

14.  A final end result demonstrated that the person CAN SEE
     SITUATIONS AND HANDLE THEM.					_______

     For, of course, the reason the person Qs and As is that he can't confront
-- or see the existing scene and so can't handle it.

     Q and A is the DISEASE OF DODGING LIFE.

     When such a person tries to get a question or program done and the other
person

				      224


says or does something else, the Q and Aer goes into a sort of overwhelm or
cave-in and just rides along at effect.

     PEOPLE WHO GET THINGS DONE ARE AT CAUSE. When they are not, they
Q and A.

     Thus it IS a kind of illness. Chronic Overwhelm. It is NOT cured by drugs
or electric shocks or brain operations.

     It is cured by making oneself strong enough in confront and handle to live!

						    L. RON HUBBARD
						    Founder

LRH:nt.jh
Copyright $c 1973
by L. Ron Hubbard
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

				      225




L. RON HUBBARD
Founder


Type = 11
iDate=23/11/73
Volnum=0
Issue=0
Rev=0
rDate=0/0/0
Addition=0
aDate=0/0/0
aRev=0
arDate=0/0/0

DRY AND WET HANDS
MAKE FALSE TA


Remimeo
Tech & Qual
All Levels
All Auditors
All Tech Checksheets

			 HUBBARD COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
		    Saint Hill Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex

			HCO BULLETIN OF 23 NOVEMBER 1973

	     (REVISED -- see HCO B 23 Nov 73 R Volume VIII -- 415)

Remimeo
Tech & Qual
All Levels
All Auditors
All Tech Checksheets	       DRY AND WET HANDS
				 MAKE FALSE TA

     A couple of years ago some auditors were solving high TA problems by
putting hand cream on the pc's hands when they were calloused and talcum
powder on a pc's hands when they were too wet. Since no research had been done
they were censured.

     Research has now been done on this matter of dry and wet hands.

     Apparently when a person has taken certain medicines or chemicals, or uses
detergent soaps or is in contact with certain chemicals (such as those in some
furniture polishes) the ordinary skin oils vanish. These oils are needed to
make an electrical contact with the cans.

     When these oils are absent, there is no adequate electrical contact and
the "TA is High".

     When a person is deficient in certain minerals or vitamins such as
magnesium or B complex, his hands can be excessively wet.

     Either of these two conditions in hands or feet can produce an incorrect
TA position.

     The dry condition produces a false high TA.

     The overly wet condition produces a false low TA.

     The TA depends on normally moist hands. This does not mean the meter works
on "sweat". It does mean the meter works only when there is a correct
electrical contact.

     Too much and too greasy hand cream could produce too low a TA.

     Too much powder or drier could produce too high a TA.

     Therefore one must not go to extremes.

				   DRY HANDS

     The excessively "dry" hand is seen as shiny or polished looking. It feels
very dry.

     The correct treatment is to use a "vanishing cream" (obtainable from any
cosmetics store) not a greasy hand cream.

     The "vanishing cream" is so called because it rubs all the way into the
skin and leaves no excess grease.

     This restores normal electrical contact.

     There are many such creams. It makes no difference which is used so long
as it vanishes into the skin.

     It is doubtful if it would have to be applied more than once -- at
session start -- as it lasts for a long while.

				      226


    This would apply to some footplate cases as well (whose hands are
defective or too heavily calloused).

    If a cream leaves smears on a can, it is too heavily applied or too little
absorbed.

    Vanishing type cream is usually smeared on, rubbed in and can then be
thoroughly wiped off. The hands (or feet) will usually produce, then, a normal
TA and meter response.

				   WET HANDS

    Anti-perspirants can be applied to too wet hands. There are many brands of
these, often a powder or spray.

    It can be wiped off after application and should work for two or three
hours.

    It can be applied to hands or feet (for footplates).

    If the TA then goes too high, use vanishing cream on top of it.

				    SUMMARY

    While much work could be done still, the above is enough for a practical
result.

				    WARNING

    Hi TAs and Lo TAs do not widely F/N. If you are getting wide persistent F/N
with the TA too high (above 3) or too low (below 2) you have a pc whose hands
are too dry or too wet. Using this HCO B should correct it and in future
sessions you should continue the remedy on that pc.

    NOTHING in this HCO B excuses the misreading or falsifying of a TA. Get the
TA in normal range with this HCO B before you start calling processes ended.

    C/S 53RF and the False TA Checklist HCO B 29 Feb 1972R, Revised 23 Nov 73,
are your tools for handling too high and too low TAs.

    The only other conditions I know of that make an auditor mess up a pc's TA
are:

    (a) A discharged meter (registers high).

    (b) An incorrectly set meter by trim button.

    (c) A "fleeting F/N" where the pc F/Ns so briefly the auditor misses it and
	overruns.

    (d) Bad TRs.

    (e) Unflat processes.

    (f) Overrun processes.

    (g) Heavy drugs or medicines.

    False TA often comes to light when the auditor runs out of reasons it is
high or low and it dawns on him that he is dealing with false TA. In the
latter case he should know all MATERIALS ON THIS SUBJECT OF FALSE TA (given on
HCO B 29 Feb 1972R, Revised 23 Nov 73, as references) AND REMEDY THE FALSE TA
SITUATION AND THEN RESUME NORMAL AUDITING. He must not go on calling high or
low TA F/Ns just by assuming the TA is false.

    Given a contact the meter always tells the truth.

LRH:clb.rd
Copyright $c 1973				      L. RON HUBBARD
by L. Ron Hubbard				      Founder
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
				      227




L. RON HUBBARD
Founder


Type = 11
iDate=24/11/73
Volnum=0
Issue=0
Rev=0
rDate=0/0/0
Addition=0
aDate=0/0/0
aRev=0
arDate=0/0/0

C/S Series 53RF
SHORT HI-LO TA ASSESSMENT C/S

Type = 11
iDate=31/12/71
Issue=0
Rev=4
rDate=0/0/0
Addition=0
aDate=0/0/0
aRev=0
arDate=0/0/0

Remimeo

			 HUBBARD COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
		    Saint Hill Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex

			HCO BULLETIN OF 24 NOVEMBER 1973

	    (CANCELLED -- see HCO B 24 Nov 73RB Volume VIII -- 398)

			 (Cancels HCOB 31 Dec 1971 RC)
			       Reissued 25 Nov 73
Remimeo
				C/S Series 53RF

			 SHORT HI-LO TA ASSESSMENT C/S

    This is the basic prepared list used by Auditors to get a TA up or down
into normal range. A GF Method 5 may also be used after TA is in normal range
to get pc's case handled better.

_____________________________________ PC Name ____________________________ Date

1.  Assess pc Method 5 on this sheet. (Go down the list calling off the items
to the pc, watching the meter. Mark any Tick, SF, F, LF, LFBD [to what TA],
speeded rise or Blow Up.) NOTE: A C/S 53RF should be reassessed and all reads
handled until it F/Ns on assessment.

A.  Interiorization	    _______	Invisible			_______
    Went in		    _______	Black				_______
    Go in		    _______	Loss				_______
    Can't get in	    _______  F. Same thing run twice		_______
    Want to get out	    _______	Same action done by another
    Kicked out of spaces    _______	  auditor			_______

B.  List errors 	    _______  G. Doing something with
    Overlisting 	    _______	  mind between sessions 	_______
    Wrong items 	    _______	Some other practice		_______
    Upset with giving
      items to auditor	    _______  H. Word Clearing errors		_______

C.  Some sort of W/H	    _______	Study errors			_______
    Are you withholding 	     I. False TA			_______
      something 	    _______	Wrong sized cans		_______
    Is another withholding		Tired hands			_______
      something from you    _______	Dry hands or feet		_______
    Are others withholding		Wet hands or feet		_______
      something from others _______	Loosens can grip		_______
    Has another committed
      overts on you	    _______  J. Auditor overwhelming		_______
    Have you committed			Feel attacked			_______
      any overts	    _______	Something wrong with
    Have others committed		  F/Ns				_______
      overts on others	    _______	Items really didn't read	_______
    Not saying		    _______	Bad auditing			_______
    Problems		    _______	Incomplete actions		_______
    Protest		    _______
    Don't like it	    _______  K. Can't have			_______
    Low Havingness	    _______
    Audited over out ruds   _______
    Feel sad		    _______  L. PTS				_______
    Rushed		    _______	Suppressed			_______
    Tired		    _______
    ARC Brk		    _______  M. Something went on too
    Upset		    _______	  long				_______
					Went on by a release
D.  Drugs		    _______	  point 			_______
    LSD 		    _______	Overrun 			_______
    Alcohol		    _______	Auditor kept on going		_______
    Pot 		    _______	Over-repair			_______
    Medicine		    _______	Puzzled by auditor
					  keeps on			_______
E.  Engram in restimulation _______	Stops				_______
    Same engram run twice   _______
    Can't see engrams too	     N. Something else			_______
      well		    _______	Physically ill			_______

				      228


O.  Repairing a TA that 		Faulty Meter			_______
      isn't high	    _______	Nothing wrong			_______
    Repairing a TA that
      isn't low 	    _______

2.   Use only the small falls or falls or BDs. The rises will however show
where mass lies.

A.   If A or any of the A Group, and the pc has had an Int RD, do an Int RD
     Correction List, and handle the reads. (HCOB 29 Oct 71 Amended 31 Dec 71.)

     If pc has never had an Int RD, then give him a standard Int RD providing
     you have checked out on the Int-Ext pack and are good at R3R.

B.   If any of these read, do an L4B on the earliest lists you can find that
     have not been corrected. Lacking these do an L4B in general. You can go
     over an L4B several times handling each read to F/N until the whole L4B
     gives nothing but F/Ns.

C.   If any of these, handle with 2wc and earlier similar to F/N. If more than
     one reads do biggest read first and then clean up each of the others E/S
     to F/N. If all read on assessment you have to get an F/N for each or 17
     F/Ns. On overts and withholds, get what, and E/S to F/N. On out ruds,
     find which rud and handle. (See GF40RR HCOB 30 June 71 Revised 13 Jan
     72.) Feel sad, handle the ARC Break. (Feel sad = ARC Brk of long
     duration.)

D.   Rehab releases on each "drug" taken to F/N. Complete the Drug RD per C/S
     Series 48R after handling all reads on this assessment. If pc has had a
     Drug RD, do L3B on it, and handle.

E.   If any of these, do L3B and handle according to what is stated to do on
     L3B.

F.   Clean up any protest and inval and rehab to F/N.

G.   Find out what it is. If Yoga or Mystic exercises or some such 2wc E/S it
     to first time done, find out what upset had occurred before that and if
     TA now down do L1C on that period of pc's life.

H.   If Word Clearing, do a Word Clearing Correction List, handle all reads.
     If Study errors, 2wc E/S to F/N, and add a Study Correction List to the
     pc's program.

I.   False TA is wrong cans. Use HCOBs 24 Oct 71, 12 Nov 71, 15 Feb 72, 18 Feb
     72, 29 Feb 72, HCOB 23 Nov 73, all on False TA. Then clean up the
     bypassed charge with (1) Assess for best read (a) TA worries (b) F/N
     worries. (2) Then 2wc times he was worried about (item) E/S to F/N. (3)
     Rehab a time he felt really keyed out to F/N.

J.   These are auditor errors. Low TA is generally caused by overwhelming TRs
     and incomplete actions. A high TA can be caused by an auditor overrunning
     F/Ns or failing to call them. Or trying to assess through an F/N and
     mistaking an F/N right swing for a read. These items are all 2wc E/S to
     F/N. Auditors who made them need Cramming badly or retread.

K.   Can't have or Hav. Find correct Havingness process and remedy.

L.   PTS or Suppressed. Check for SP or get a full PTS RD.

M.   Find out what. Clean up any protest. Rehab to F/N on each (or date to
     blow, locate to blow if qualified).

N.   2wc to find what. Note BD item. If BD item covered by one of these
     categories handle per instructions. If not just 2wc to F/N and get
     further C/S instructions for handling if necessary.

O.   Get pc to tell you about it briefly. If correct then indicate to F/N. Go
     E/S and indicate if no F/N on first. If false TA handle per I above.

General. Handle Int RD (A) if it reads at all before handling rest as nothing
will go right if Int is still out. For the remainder prefer to handle any BD
group if you get a BD. If in doubt about what to do, return to the C/S.

LRH:BW:BL:nt.jh
Copyright $c 1971, 1972, 1973			       Revised by
by L. Ron Hubbard				       L. RON HUBBARD
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED				       Founder
				      229




Revised by
L. RON HUBBARD
Founder


Type = 11
iDate=5/12/73
Volnum=0
Issue=0
Rev=0
rDate=0/0/0
Addition=0
aDate=0/0/0
aRev=0
arDate=0/0/0

THE REASON FOR Q AND A


Remimeo
All Auditors
All Levels
Flag Internes
LRH Comms

			 HUBBARD COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
		    Saint Hill Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex

			HCO BULLETIN OF 5 DECEMBER 1973

Remimeo
All Auditors
All Levels
Flag Internes
LRH Comms
			     THE REASON FOR Q AND A

      Q and A means "Question and Answer".

      When the term Q and A is used it means one did NOT get an answer to his
question. It also means not getting compliance with an order but accepting
something else.

      Example:	Auditor:  Do birds fly? Pc: I don't like birds. Auditor: What
don't you like about birds? FLUNK. It's a Q and A. The right reply would be an
answer to the question asked and the right action would be to get the original
question answered. TR 4 (handling origins) can apply here. The moment TR 4 is
violated (Ack and return the pc to original Question) and the original
unanswered question is not again asked the Auditor just drifts along with the
pc. Things get restimulated, nothing gets really handled or run.

      In Administration the same thing can happen. The executive gives an
order, the junior says or does something else, the executive does not simply
TR 4 it and get the original order done, and the result is chaos.

      Executive: Phone Mr. Schultz and tell him our printing order will be
there this afternoon. Junior: I don't know his number. Executive:  Don't you
have a phone book? Junior:  The phone company didn't send one this year as
our bill was overdue.  Executive (the fool) goes to Accounts to see what about
the phone bill. Mr. Schultz never gets his call. The printing order arrives
but Mr. Schultz doesn't know it....

      Example: Executive: Do target 21 how. Junior: I don't have any issue
files. Executive:  What happened to them? Junior: Mimeo goofed. Executive:
I'll go see Mimeo....

				   DISPERSAL

      Q and A is simply Postulate Aberration.

      Aberration is non-straight line by definition.

      A sick thetan who is all caved in can't direct a postulate at anything.
When he tries, he lets it wobble around and go elsewhere.

      The difference between a Degraded Being and an OT is simply that the DB
can't put out a postulate or intention in a direct line or way and make it
hold good.

      The insane are a great example of this. They are insane because they
have evil intentions. But they can't even make these stick. They may intend to
burn down the house but they usually wind up watering the rug or do some other
non sequitur thing. It's not that they don't mess things up. The whole point
here is that they can't even properly destroy what they intend to destroy.
Even their evil intentions wobble, poor things.

      But not all people who Q and A are insane.

				      230


     When a person is running at effect he Qs and As.

     He is confronted by life, he does not confront it.

     He is usually a bit blind to things as his ability to look AT is turned
back on him by his lack of beam power. Thus he gives the appearance of being
unaware.

     His emotional feeling is overwhelm.

     His mental state is confusion.

     He starts for B, winds up at -- A.

     Other not too well intentioned people can play tricks on a Qer and Aer.
When they don't want to answer or comply they artfully bring about a Q and A.

     Example:  Bosco does not want to staple the mimeo issue. He knows his
senior Qs and As. So we get this. Senior:  Staple that issue with the big
stapler. Bosco: I hurt my thumb. Q and A Senior:  Have you been to see the
Medical Officer? Bosco: He wouldn't look at it. Q and A Senior: I'll go have a
word with him. (Departs) Bosco gets back to reading "Jesse James Rides Again"
humming softly to himself. For HIS trouble is, he Qs and As with the Mest
Universe!

				  BODY Q AND A

     Some people Q and A with their bodies. The body is, after all, composed
of Mest. It follows the laws of Mest.

     One of these laws is Newton's first law of motion: INERTIA. This is the
tendency of a Mest object to remain motionless until acted upon by an exterior
force. Or to continue in a line of motion until acted upon by an exterior
force.

     Well, the main force around that is continually acting on a human body is
a thetan, the being himself.

     The body will remain at rest (since it is a Mest Object) until acted upon
by the thetan that is supposed to be running it.

     If that being is an aberrated non-straight line being THE BODY REACTS ON
HIM MORE THAN HE REACTS ON THE BODY. Thus he remains motionless or very slow.
When the body is in unwanted motion, the being does not deter the motion as the
body is acting upon him far more than he is reacting on the body.

     As a result, one of the manifestations is Q and A. He wants to pick up a
piece of paper. The body inertia has to be overcome to do so. So he does not
reach for the paper, he just leaves the hand where it is. This would be no
action at all. If he then weakly forces the motion, he finds himself picking
up something else like a paper clip, decides he wants that anyway and settles
for it. Now he has to invent why he has a paper clip in his hand. His original
intention never gets executed.

     Some people on medical lines are just there not because of actual illness
but because they are just Qing and Aing with their body.

     People also Q and A With themselves. They want to stop drinking and
can't. They want to stop or change something about themselves or their body
and then disperse off onto something else.

     Freud read all sorts of dire and awful things into simple Q and A. He
invented intentions the person must have that made him "sublimate". All Freud
succeeded in doing was making the person introspective looking for wrong whys.

     The right why was simple -- the person could not go in a straight line to
an

				      231


objective and/or could not cease to do something he was compulsively doing.

     The very word ABERRATION contains the idea of this -- no straight line
but a bent one.

     THE CURE FOR THIS SORT OF THING (Q and A with a body) IS OBJECTIVE
PROCESSES.

     And a very willing and bright thetan CAN simply recognize it for what it
is -- not enough push!

     And instead of going to the MO for a slight ache, he just pushes on
through.

     As the ache is a recoil of body Q and A in a lot of cases, the ache
itself goes away as soon as one simply pushes through.

     Painters and artists buy the idea they are benefited by aberration. "Be
gad you are neurotic" was a trick being played by the late and unlamented
psychiatrists on artists.

     One paints because he can push into execution what he visualizes. The best
painters were the least aberrated.

     Greenwich Village or Left Bank artists, when they don't paint, never
suspect it's because they just can't overcome hand inertia to push a paint
brush!

     People live Q and A lives. They never become what they desire to be
because they Q and A with life about it.

     Schopenhauer, the German philosopher of doom, even had a dirty crack about
being able to do things: "Stubbornness is the will taking the place of the
intellect." By this, one is "intellectual" if he Qs and As.

				    SUMMARY

     People who can't get things done are simply Qing and Aing with people and
life.

     People who CAN get things done just don't Q and A.

     All great truths are simple.

     This is a major one.

							     L. RON HUBBARD
							     Founder
LRH:nt.jh
Copyright $c 1973
by L. Ron Hubbard
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
				      232




L. RON HUBBARD
Founder


Type = 11
iDate=6/12/73
Volnum=0
Issue=0
Rev=0
rDate=0/0/0
Addition=0
aDate=0/0/0
aRev=0
arDate=0/0/0

C/S Series 90
THE PRIMARY FAILURE


Remimeo

			 HUBBARD COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
		    Saint Hill Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex

			HCO BULLETIN OF 6 DECEMBER 1973
Remimeo
				 C/S Series 90

			      THE PRIMARY FAILURE

	       References: HCO B 28 Feb 1971, C/S Series 24,
			   "Metering Reading Items", and
			   HCO B 15 Oct 1973, C/S Series 87,
			   "Nulling and F/Ning Prepared Lists".

     A C/S who cannot get a result on his pcs will find the most usual biggest
improvement by getting the offending Auditors' ASSESSING handled.

     We used to say that "the Auditor's TRs were out" as the most fundamental
reason for no results.

     This is not specific enough.

     THE MOST COMMON REASON FOR FAILED SESSIONS IS THE INABILITY OF THE
AUDITOR TO GET READS ON LISTS.

     Time after time I have checked this back as the real reason.

     It became evident when one could take almost any "null" (no read) list in
a pc's folder, give it and the pc to an Auditor who COULD assess and get nice
reads on it with consequent gain.

     Example: Pc has a high TA. C/S orders a C/S 53RF. List is null. Pc goes
on having a high TA. C/S gets inventive, case crashes. Another C/S and another
Auditor takes the same pc and the same list, gets good reads, handles. Case
flies again.

     What was wrong was:

     (a) The Auditor's TR 1 was terrible.

     (b) The Auditor couldn't meter.

				     REMEDY

     One takes the above two reference HCO Bs and gets their points fully
checked on the flunking Auditor.

     The C/S gets the Auditor's TR 1 corrected. In doing the latter one may
find a why for the out TR 1 like a notion one must be soft-spoken to stay in
ARC or the Auditor is imitating some other Auditor whose TR 1 is faulty.

				 QUAL CRAMMING

     It can happen that these actions are reported done in Qual and the
Auditor still flubs.

     In this case the C/S has to straighten out Qual Cramming by doing the
above reference HCO Bs on the Cramming Officer and getting the Cramming
Officer's TR 1 ideas unscrewed and straight.

				      233


				  REQUIREMENTS

     It takes correct metering and IMPINGEMENT to make a list read.

     If the auditor does not have these, then drug lists, Dianetic lists,
correction lists will all go for nothing.

     As the prepared list is the C/S's main tool for discovery and correction
an auditor failure to get a list to respond or note it then defeats the C/S
completely.

					SUMMARY

     THE ERROR OF AN AUDITOR BEING UNABLE TO GET A LIST TO READ ON A METER IS
A PRIMARY CAUSE OF C/S FAILURE.

     To win, correct it!

							    L. RON HUBBARD
							    Founder
LRH:nt.jh
Copyright $c 1973
by L. Ron Hubbard
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

				      234




L. RON HUBBARD
Founder


Type = 11
iDate=15/12/73
Volnum=0
Issue=0
Rev=0
rDate=0/0/0
Addition=0
aDate=0/0/0
aRev=0
arDate=0/0/0

THE CONTINUOUS MISSED W/H
AND CONTINUOUS OVERT
WITH DATA ON DEGRADED BEINGS
AND FALSE PTS CONDITIONS


Remimeo
All Levels
Add Level II
Checksheet
Ethics Officers
Masters at Arms
C/Ses

			 HUBBARD COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
		    Saint Hill Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex

			HCO BULLETIN OF 15 DECEMBER 1973
Remimeo
All Levels
Add Level II
Checksheet
Ethics Officers 	   THE CONTINUOUS MISSED W/H
Masters at Arms 	      AND CONTINUOUS OVERT
C/Ses			  WITH DATA ON DEGRADED BEINGS
			    AND FALSE PTS CONDITIONS

	      Reference: (1) Tape List and HCO B List of Level II,
       Page 4 HCO P/L 26.1.72, Issue VI, concerning Withholds and Overts.
     (2) "Admin Know-How -- Alter-Is and Degraded Beings", HCO B 22 Mar 67.

     There are two special cases of withholds and overts. They do not occur in
all cases by a long ways. But they do occur on a few cases. These are
CONTINUOUS MISSED WITHHOLDS and CONTINUOUS OVERTS.

     This is not quite the same as "The Continuing Overt Act" HCO B 29
September 65. In that type the person is repeating overt acts against
something usually named.

			   THE CONTINUOUS MISSED W/H

     A Continuous Missed Withhold occurs when a person feels some way and
anyone who sees him misses it.

     Example: A doctor feels very unconfident of his skill. Every patient who
sees him misses the fact that he is not confident.

     This reacts as a missed withhold.

     It is of course based upon some bad incident that destroyed his confidence
(usually of an engramic intensity).

     But as the person actively withholds this, then those seeing him miss the
withhold.

     This could work in thousands of variations. A woman feels continuous
disdain for her child but withholds it. The child therefore continuously
misses a withhold. All the phenomena of the missed w/h would continuously
react against the child.

     Probably all dishonest social conduct brings about a Continuous Missed
Withhold. The politician who hates people, the minister who no longer believes
in God, the mechanic who privately believes he is a jinx on machinery, these
all then set up the phenomena of missed withholds on themselves and can
dramatize it in their conduct.

			      THE CONTINUOUS OVERT

     A person who believes he is harmful to others may also believe that many
of his common ordinary actions are harmful.

     He may feel he is committing a Continuous Overt on others.

     Example: A clothing model believes she is committing a fraud on older
women by displaying clothing to them in which they will look poorly. In her
estimation this is a Continuous Overt Act.

     Of course all older women miss it on her.

     Appearance, just being alive, can be considered by some as an overt.

     Missed withhold phenomena will result.

				      235


				DEGRADED BEINGS

     The Continuous Withhold and Continuous Overt are probably a basis of
feeling degraded.

     Degraded Beings, as described in "Admin Know-How -- Alter-Is and Degraded
Beings", HCO B 22 Mar 67, are that way at least in part because they have some
Continuous Missed Withhold or a fancied Continuous Overt Act.

     This makes them feel degraded and act that way.

				    HANDLING

     One can add to any program a check for a Continuous Missed Withhold or
Continuous Overt as an additional version of rudiments.

     A master question, which could be broken down into three lists which
would have to be done by the laws of L&N, would be, "When anyone looks at you
what feeling (action, attitude) of yours do they miss?" Then, "When was it
missed?" "Who missed it?" and "What did he do that made you believe it had
been missed?"

     Another approach, less dangerous in that lists aren't made, would be:

     For Continuous Missed Withhold the question could be, "Is there some way
you feel that others don't realize?" And with 2wc uncover it. Then ask, "Who
misses this?" with answer, followed by, "When has someone missed it?" with E/S
to an earlier time. Followed by, "What did he (or she) do that made you think
he (or she) knew?" This will key it out and can change behavior.

     For Continuous Overt Act it would be, "Is there something you do that
others do not know about?" With 2wc to cover it and get what it is. Then ask,
"Who has not found out about it?" with an answer. And then, "When did someone
almost find out?" "What did he (or she) do that made you think he (or she)
knew?"

     Each of the above questions should be F/Ned.

				     MOTION

     People who have Continuous Withholds or Overts tend to be very slow,
flubby and impositive. They have to be very careful. And they make mistakes.
Slowness or robotness are keys to the presence of Continuous Missed Withholds
or Overts.

				       PT

     Quite often a case is FALSELY LABELED PTS when in fact it is really a
matter of Continuous Missed Withholds and Continuous Overts.

     When a "PTS" person does not respond to PTS handling easily then you know
you are dealing with Continuous Missed Withholds and/or Continuous Overts.

				    SUMMARY

     These conditions are not present in all cases. When they are you have a
Degraded Being. When a "PTS" person does not respond to PTS handling, try
Continuous Missed Withholds and Continuous Overts. You can prevent blows,
handle much HE and R and change character in this way.

							    L. RON HUBBARD
LRH:nt.rd						    Founder
Copyright $c 1973
by L. Ron Hubbard
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
				      236




L. RON HUBBARD
Founder


Type = 11
iDate=6/1/74
Volnum=0
Issue=0
Rev=0
rDate=0/0/0
Addition=0
aDate=0/0/0
aRev=0
arDate=0/0/0

ASSIST SUMMARY
ADDITION


Remimeo

			 HUBBARD COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
		    Saint Hill Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex

			 HCO BULLETIN OF 6 JANUARY 1974
Remimeo
				 ASSIST SUMMARY
				    ADDITION

	       TO LIST OF REFERENCES ADD:

	       HCO B  11 July 73 ASSIST SUMMARY
	       HCO B   6 Jan  74 ASSIST SUMMARY ADDITION
	       ANY TAPE OR MATERIALS ON "PRIOR CONFUSION"
	       ANY TAPE OR MATERIALS ON "POSTULATES AND INJURIES"
	       (1952 Autumn, London Lectures, etc)
	       HCO Bs ON MISTAKES BEING MADE IN PRESENCE OF
	       SUPPRESSION, 1968.

     ADD TO PAGE 4 OF HCO B 11 July 73 after POSTULATE TWO-WAY COMM:

     PRIOR CONFUSION: Fixed ideas follow a period of confusion. This is also
true of engrams that hang up as physical injury. Slow recovery after an engram
has been run can be caused by the Prior Confusion mechanism. The engram of
accident or injury can be a stable item in a confusion. By 2-way comm see if
a confusion existed prior to the accident, injury or illness. If so, it may be
2wced earlier similar to F/N.

     MYSTERY POINT: Often there is some part of an incident which is mysterious
to a preclear. The engram itself may hang up on a mystery. A thetan could be
called a "mystery sandwich" in that he tends to stick in on mysteries. 2wc any
mysterious aspect of the incident. 2wc it earlier similar to F/N Cog VGIs.

     SUPPRESSIVE PRESENCE:  Mistakes or accidents or injuries occur in the
presence of suppression. One wants to know if any such suppressive influence
or factor existed just prior to the incident being handled. This could be the
area it occurred in or persons the preclear had just spoken to. 2wc any
suppressive or invalidative presence that may have caused a mistake to be made
or the accident to occur. 2wc E/S to F/N Cog VGIs.

     AGREEMENT: Get any agreement the person may have had in or with the
incident. There is usually a point where the person agrees with some part of
the scene. If this point is found it will tend to unpin the pc from going on
agreeing to be sick or injured.

     PROTEST: 2wc any protest in the incident.

     PREDICTION: The person is usually concerned about his recovery. Undue
worry about it can extend the effects into the future. 2wc (a) how long he/she
expects to take to recover. (b) Get the person to tell you any predictions
others have made about it. 2wc it to an F/N Cog VGIs. Note -- avoid getting
the person to predict it as a very long time by getting him to talk about that
further.

     LOSSES: A person who has just experienced a loss may become ill. This is
particularly true of colds. 2wc anything the pc may have lost to F/N.

     PRESENT TIME: An injured or sick person is out of present time. Thus
running HAVINGNESS in every assist session is vital. This not only remedies
havingness but also brings the preclear to prasent time.

     HIGH OR LO TA: A C/S 53 RF should be used to get the TA under control
during assists if it cannot be gotten down. It must be done by an auditor who
knows how to meter and can get reads.

				      237


     ILLNESS FOLLOWING AUDITING: It can occur that a pc gets ill after being
audited where the "auditing" is out tech. When this occurs or is suspected, a
Green Form should be assessed only by an auditor who cam meter and whose TR 1
gets reads. The GF reads are then handled. Out Interiorization, bad lists,
missed w/hs, ARC Breaks and incomplete or flubbed engrams are the commonest
errors.

     BEFORE-AFTER: Where an injured or ill pc is so stuck that he has a fixed
picture that does not move, one can jar it loose by asking him to recall a
time before the incident and then asking him to recall a time after it.  This
will "jar the engram loose" and change the stuck point.

     UNCONSCIOUSNESS: A pc can be audited even if in a coma. The processes are
objective, not significance processes. One process is to use his hand to reach
and withdraw from an object such as a pillow or blanket. One makes the hand do
it while giving the commands. One can even arrange a "signal system" where
the pc is in a coma and cannot talk by holding his hand and telling him to
squeeze one's hand once for yes, twice for no.	It is astonishing that the pc
will often respond and he can be questioned this way.

     TEMPERATURE ASSISTS: There is an HCO B on how to do assists that bring
down the temperature. Holding objects still repetitively is the basic process.

     Quite often an injury or illness will miraculously clear up before one
has run all the steps possible. If this is the case one should end off any
further assist.

     All auditing of injured or ill people must be kept fairly light. Errors
in TRs (such as a bad TR 4), errors in tech rebound on them very heavily. An
ill or injured person can easily be audited into a mess if the processes are
too heavy for him to handle and if the auditor is goofing. Very exact in-tech,
good TRs, good metering sessions are all that should be tolerated in assists.

     An auditor has it in his power to make pcs recover spectacularly. That
power is in direct proportion to his flawlessness as an auditor. Only the most
exact and proper tech will produce the desired result.

     If you truly want to help your fellows, that exact skill and those
results are very well worth having.

							     L. RON HUBBARD
							     Founder
LRH:nt.rd
Copyright $c 1974
by L. Ron Hubbard
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
				      238




L. RON HUBBARD
Founder


Type = 11
iDate=23/1/74
Volnum=0
Issue=0
Rev=0
rDate=0/0/0
Addition=0
aDate=0/0/0
aRev=0
arDate=0/0/0

THE TECHNICAL BREAKTHROUGH OF 1973!
THE INTROSPECTION RD


Remimeo

			 HUBBARD COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
		    Saint Hill Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex

			HCO BULLETIN OF 23 JANUARY 1974

	     (REVISED -- see HCO B 23 Jan 74RA Volume VIII -- 346)

Remimeo
		      THE TECHNICAL BREAKTHROUGH OF 1973!
			      THE INTROSPECTION RD

			     (Steps of list 1 to 17
		      are subject to possible correction.)

     I have made a technical breakthrough which possibly ranks with the major
discoveries of the Twentieth Century. It is certainly the greatest advancement
of 1973 and is now being released after a final wrap-up of research. It is
called the Introspection Rundown.

     The purpose of the Introspection RD is to locate and correct those things
which cause a person to fixate his attention inwardly, on himself or his bank.
This RD extroverts the person so that he can see his environment and therefore
handle and control it.

				    RESEARCH

     In 1970 the actual cause of PSYCHOSIS was isolated (as given in HCO B C/S
Series 22, "Psychosis", 28 November 1970). In the ensuing years this has been
proven beyond doubt to be totally correct.

     But what is a psychotic break?

     Man has never been able to solve the psychotic break. In fact, human
beings are actually afraid of a person in a psychotic break and in desperation
turn to psychiatry to handle.

     Psychiatry, desperate in its turn, without effective tech, resorts to
barbarities such as heavy drugs, ice picks, electric and insulin shock which
half kill the person and only suppress him. The fact remains there has never
been a cure for the psychotic break until now.

     The key is WHAT CAUSED THE PERSON TO INTROSPECT BEFORE THE PSYCHOTIC
BREAK.

     The breakthrough was made on a person who, after a series of wrong
indications, went into a full-blown psychotic break -- violence, destruction
and all.

     The psychiatrist at this point would have sharpened up his ice pick,
filled his syringes with the most powerful (and deadly) drugs he could find
and turned up the volts. His "handling" would have been a final destruction of
the individual.

     What was done was an auditor went into the room, sat the person down and
corrected the last severe point of wrong indication. Subsequent times of wrong
indication in his life were cleared up, the person came out of the psychotic
break and into p.t.

     THIS MEANS THE LAST REASON TO HAVE PSYCHIATRY AROUND IS GONE.

     The psychotic break, the last of the "unsolvable" conditions that can
trap a person, has been solved.

     And it's quite simple, really.

				      239


				     THEORY

     Def. INTROSPECTION: "(L. from introspicere, to look within) a looking into
one's own mind, feelings, reactions, etc; observation and analysis of
oneself." Webster's New World Dictionary.

     Def. INTROVERSION: "(from intro- + L. vertere, to turn) 2.... a tendency
to direct one's interest upon oneself rather than upon external objects or
events." Webster's New World Dictionary.

     The essence of the introspection RD is looking for and correcting all
those things which CAUSED the person to look inward worriedly and wrestle with
the mystery of some incorrectly designated error. The result is continual
inward looking or self-auditing without relief or end.

     In a normal person this becomes a diminished activity, unhappiness or
illness. In an R/Ser this becomes insanity and a psychotic break occurs at the
last severe point of wrong indication.

				AUDITOR TRAINING

     Auditors selected to do this RD must have recently done a HARD TRs Course
and the Anti-Q&A materials.

     They must be able to recognize a ROCK SLAM, which is a particular E-Meter
phenomenon. They must be Class IV Expanded Dianetics auditors of proven skill
on routine cases. They must not themselves be R/Sers. (The last requisite is
waived in a self-salvage co-audit group where all R/S.)

     They need flawless TRs, no Q&A. This Rundown is very simple but cannot be
flubbed, as that will compound the errors and cause further introspection in
the pc. It is better not to deliver this RD than to flub any part of it. C/Ses
take note. It is an Ethics Offense to attempt this Rundown without the auditor
having done the prerequisite training and a further offense for an auditor to
flub on it.

				STEPS OF THE RD

		 (On a normal person do Steps 000, 0000, 00000
				  and 000000.)

     0.   On a person in a psychotic break isolate the person wholly
	  with all attendants completely muzzled (no speech).		_______

    00.   Give Vitamins (B Complex, including niacinamide) and
	  minerals (calcium and magnesium) to build the person up.	_______

   000.   Locate by study or research of the person's case or via
	  associates or 2-way comm the latest point of introversion
	  which will be just at the beginning of the current psychotic
	  break.							_______

  0000.   Indicate the substance of it to the person to release the
	  By-Passed Charge.						_______

 00000.   Indicate and handle the point of introversion and its chain.
	  (Indication by itself can be a separate step before auditing.)_______

000000.   Continue the RD as below.					_______

     1.   Verify/correct all L&N lists if not already done correctly.	_______

     2.   Verify/correct all Why Finding, 3 May PLs, PTS Interviews,
	  etc. (See C/S Series 78.)					_______

				      240


     3.   Word Clear the definitions of "Introspection", "Introversion"
	  and "Extroversion".						_______

     4.   Trace back the chain of being told his purposes were
	  incorrect. To F/N Cog VGIs.					_______

     5.   Trace back the chain of being "told" he had purposes that he
	  didn't actually have. To F/N Cog VGIs.			_______

     6.   Trace back the chain of being asked for things that didn't
	  exist. To F/N Cog VGIs.					_______

     7.   Trace back the chain of someone saying W/Hs existed that
	  didn't. To F/N Cog VGIs.					_______

     8.   Trace back the chain of not having his withholds accepted.
	  To F/N Cog VGIs.						_______

     9.   Trace back the chain of someone accusing him of something
	  he hadn't done. To F/N Cog VGIs.				_______

     10.  Trace back the chain of accusing himself of things he hadn't
	  done. To F/N Cog VGIs.					_______

     11.  Trace back the chain of being heavily invalidated for
	  something he didn't do. To F/N Cog VGIs.			_______

     12.  Trace back the chain of being validated for something he
	  knew was wrong. To F/N Cog VGIs.				_______

     13.  Trace back the chain of being told he was PTS when he
	  wasn't. To F/N Cog VGIs.					_______

     14.  Trace back the chain of being interrogated for no reason. To
	  F/N Cog VGIs. 						_______

     15.  Trace back the chain of being told he was someone he wasn't.
	  To F/N Cog VGIs.						_______

     16.  Trace back the chain of not having his actual identity
	  believed. To F/N Cog VGIs.					_______

     17.  Objective Havingness to F/N.					_______

     At any time after Step 2 Objective Havingness should be done at session
end. If one of the chains in Steps 3-15 turns out to be false the pc will
introvert further. In such a case indicate the fact of it having been
unnecessary and get an F/N. Then run Objective Havingness. If the TA goes high
(or low) and won't come into range, assess a C/S 53RF and handle.

     In the case of a pc in a psychotic break, the C/S would have to locate
the last severe wrong indication, indicate the fact to the pc and get it
corrected (as with a wrong item) as the first action.

				  EXTROVERSION

     Def. EXTROVERSION: "... Means nothing more than being able to look
outward...." "An extroverted personality is one who is capable of looking
around the environment...." "A person who is capable of looking at the world
around him and seeing it quite real and quite bright is of course in a state
of extroversion." (Problems of Work.)

     The end phenomena of the Introspection RD is the person extroverted, no
longer looking inward worriedly in a continuous self-audit without end.

				      241


     The EP on a person in a psychotic break is the end of the psychotic break.

     The RD is very simple and its results are magical in effectiveness. Flubs
can wreck it so don't permit them.

     You have in your hands the tool to take over mental therapy in full. You
need not fear the insane or the psychotic break any longer.

     Here also is the cure for the continual self-auditing pc who is dug into
his bank. It works on all pcs in fact with rave results.

     Do it flawlessly and we all win.

     THIS PLANET IS OURS.

							     L. RON HUBBARD
							     Founder
LRH:ams.nt.jh
Copyright $c 1974
by L. Ron Hubbard
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

				      242




L. RON HUBBARD
Founder


Type = 11
iDate=27/1/74
Volnum=0
Issue=0
Rev=0
rDate=0/0/0
Addition=0
aDate=0/0/0
aRev=0
arDate=0/0/0

DIANETICS
R3R COMMANDS
HAVE BACKGROUND DATA


Remimeo

			 HUBBARD COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
		    Saint Hill Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex

			HCO BULLETIN OF 27 JANUARY 1974
Remimeo
				   DIANETICS

				  R3R COMMANDS

			      HAVE BACKGROUND DATA

     A Cramming action has just uncovered that at least some Dianetic Auditors
do not know the reason for each R3R command and, not knowing why the commands
exist, miss on cases.

     A Cramming Officer or Supervisor can achieve a remarkable result by
making an Auditor get the why of each R3R Dianetic command from the original
materials.

     The following development and use of this Cramming technique by Mike
Mauerer follows:

				 "CASE HISTORY

     "George Baillie, a Flag Interne, working on his Dianetics OK to Audit, was
ordered to study the 1963 Dn HCO Bs ("Time Track and Engram Running by Chains"
Bulletins, Bulletins 1 and 2). He read the HCO Bs but had not studied them
vigorously enough and for application.

     "As Interne Supervisor I worked with him covering these HCO Bs and
Original Thesis. During the course of this action many confusions (primarily
roteness) were handled. Among them were things like 'What is the purpose of
Step 6 of R3R, "What do you see?"' He had previously thought it was to
'orient' the Pc to the incident or some such, but basically it came down to
the fact he had never worked out the purpose of the command as related to the
mechanics of the bank and time track. After some working he finally got the
fact that Command 4 (duration) is to turn on the visio and that before moving
the Pc through the incident one would have to know the Pc had visio so he
could move through. Conversely, if the picture was not 'turned on' then the
duration would have to be corrected. Another was the Step 3 Command (Move to
that incident) on which the interne thought that by repeating the auditing
command when the Pc 'couldn't get there' you would handle the time track. This
of course is failure to handle an origination and failure to handle time for
the Pc. He finally realized that obviously the Pc didn't have the correct date
in the first place and it is the Auditor's action to find and get the correct
date and thus move the somatic strip to that incident.

     "Each command of R3R was taken up and its purpose demo'd out against the
basic definitions and mechanics of the time track. One other of the things
discovered by this Interne was that Command Nine (What happened?) has a
purpose of running out the Locks created in PT, in session, by virtue of the
fact that you're reminding the Pc of Secondaries and Engrams right there!
(This is of course covered in Original Thesis.)

     "Probably the most stunning and revealing thing covered was the fact that
in Original Thesis Chapter 'Exhaustion of Engrams', para 3, it says, 'The
principle of recounting is very simple. The preclear is merely told to go back
to the beginning and to tell it all over again. He does this many times. As he
does it the engram should lift in tone on each recounting. It may lose some of
its data and gain other. If the Preclear is recounting in the same words time
after time, it is certain that he is playing a memory record of what he has
told you before. He must then be sent immediately back to the actual engram
and the somatics of it restimulated. He will then be found to somewhat

				      243


vary his story. He must be returned to the consciousness of somatics
continually until these are fully developed, begin to lighten and are then
gone.' This of course totally invalidates the use of a completely rote system
and requires an understanding of what is happening to the Pc, bank, etc.

     "Needless to say, this Interne went through many changes, now feels in
comm with his Pcs and not 'stuck' to some rote procedure which truly inhibits
the real gains to be gotten from Dianetics Engram Running. As evidence to this
action and its resultant gains in the Interne's ability to audit, the
following is a brief description of a case he audited today applying 1963
engram running and Original Thesis to these cases.

     "Case has run many hours of Dianetics with a hidden standard to do with
his hand. Has been trying since earliest Dianetic sessions to get this
handled. The somatic had been addressed by many different wordings and many
chains but had never blown, yet chains had apparently gone to EP. The Auditor
was C/Sed to find the actual somatic and run it out. It was found in session
that the somatic had been run out to 'EP' so an L3B was done. From the L3B the
Auditor found it was one incident in restim and proceeded to flatten the
somatic chain connected with it. During this the Auditor on occasion had to
correct three dates and two durations, but the spectacular part was Pc began
on Steps 9 and D to say the same thing regarding incident each time. This
being indicative of Pc running a memory record, Auditor moves Pc to the actual
Engram, somatics intensify and then blow (for the first time), Pc exterior
with VVGIs. Exam result is quite spectacular.

     "All the above serves to once again validate the results of the Dianetics
materials when they are applied in full."

							     L. RON HUBBARD
							     Founder
LRH:ams.nt.ts
Copyright $c 1974
by L. Ron Hubbard
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
				      244




L. RON HUBBARD
Founder


Type = 11
iDate=11/4/71
Volnum=0
Issue=0
Rev=1
rDate=28/1/74
Addition=0
aDate=0/0/0
aRev=0
arDate=0/0/0

L3RC
DIANETICS AND EXT RD REPAIR LIST


IMPORTANT
Remimeo
Dn Chkshts
Ext Chkshts
Class IV
Class VI
Class VII
Class VIII
Class IX

			 HUBBARD COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
		    Saint Hill Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex

			HCO BULLETIN OF 11 APRIL 1971 R
	     (REVISED -- see HCO B 11 Apr 71RA Volume VIII -- 265)

Remimeo
Dn Chkshts		    REVISED 28 JANUARY 1974
Ext Chkshts		 (Changes in this type style)
Class IV
Class VI
Class VII			   IMPORTANT
Class VIII
Class IX
				      L3RC

			DIANETICS AND EXT RD REPAIR LIST

				 (Revises 73B)

     This list includes the most frequent Dianetic errors. Use up to Question
28 as the usual use. Then if the situation does not solve, use the rest of the
list.

     A high or low TA and a bogged case can result from failures to erase a
chain of incidents.

     DO NOT ATTEMPT TO REPAIR A CHAIN OR ENGRAM WITHOUT USING THIS LIST as it
can have different or several errors.

     REMEMBER THAT YOUR PC MAY NOT BE SUFFICIENTLY TRAINED TO UNDERSTAND ALL
THESE QUESTIONS: IF ONE READS AND HE SAYS HE DOESN'T UNDERSTAND IT, CLEAR IT
AND REASSESS (don't explain it and take it as it read on a misunderstood not
on a fact).

     RUNNING PCS ON DIANETICS WITHOUT A FULL AND COMPLETE DN C/S 1
INDOCTRINATION IS A FOOLISH ACTION.

     TAKE ANY READ FOUND TO F/N BY INDICATION OR FULL REPAIR OF IT.

   1.  The Item or symptom being run had no charge on it.		_______
       Indicate it was a false read, spot when it was run, where it was
       run and get an F/N.

   2.  The same incident or pictures were run before.			_______
       Indicate that an overrun has occurred. If no F/N spot when,
       spot where and get an F/N.

   3.  A session was started on a new item while an old one was not
       erased.								_______
       TA would have been high on an old item or the Interiorization
       Rundown and the auditor went on anyway with a new item.
       Find what the old item was and repair it with a new assessment
       on the earlier chain. Indicate fact to the pc.

   4.  The item being run described just one incident.			_______
       (Narrative Item.)
       Find the somatics, emotions, attitudes of the incident and run
       them as chains as per Standard Dianetics.

   5.  The incident had an earlier beginning.				_______
       Move the pc to the earlier beginning and proceed as per
       Standard Dianetics R3R.

   5a. There was an earlier misrun incident restimulated.		_______
       This would be an incident that was never resolved (erased) and
       to handle it: Find out what it was and do an L3RC on it.

   6.  There were earlier incidents stirred up and not erased.		_______
       Find what chain or item and run it to completion by R3R. This
       condition sometimes leaves pc with the ARC Brk effect of
       by-passed charge and is a basic example of by-passed charge.

				      245


   7.  Stirred up earlier unrun incidents.				_______
       (Same as 6.)

   8.  When running one item went into another instead and ran a
       different set of pictures.					_______
       Jumped chain.

   9.  When you said it was erased it still had a mass. 		_______
       Auditor does ABCD again on the item one or two more times to
       get BD F/N. If TA goes up ask for earlier beginning or earlier
       similar on same incident to F/N.

   10. You were protesting.						_______
       Find out what was being protested and handle it.

   11. You were still taking drugs or medicine that had not worn off.	_______

   12. You had a misunderstood on the commands. 			_______
       Clear them up.

   13. You had a misunderstood on what you were supposed to be doing.	_______
       Clear it up, get it done right.

   14. A wrong item was given.						_______
       This could also be a listing error. If not sure what it is, shift to
       L4BR. Otherwise find it and indicate it as a wrong item and
       that all other actions connected with it were wrong. You can
       also date the session in which it occurred. And you can also find
       earlier similar wrong items.

   15. Has an earlier Dianetic upset been restimulated? 		_______
       Find the earlier one and straighten it out. Also it can go back 2
       or 3 more earlier mix-ups. Straighten out as you go back. Then
       always check for "any earlier Dianetic upset" if you get no F/N.

   16. There was an Incorrect date.					_______
       Correct it.

   17. There was an Incorrect duration. 				_______
       Correct it.

   18. There was a false date.						_______
       Find the real date despite the false date in the incident.

   19. There was a false duration.					_______
       Find the real duration despite the false duration in the incident.

   20. Is there a stuck picture?					_______
       Do 1 - 19 again on the picture and handle.

   21. Is there a persistent mass?					_______
       (Handle as in 24.)

   22. Was this or an earlier action unnecessary?			_______

   23. Was there nothing wrong in the first place?			_______

   24. Did you have trouble with a pressure item or with pressure on
       an item? 							_______
       Date it exactly by meter and find out where it occurred in the
       universe. If done exactly right, it will blow up and vanish and
       F/N. If this doesn't work, do this list 1 down to 24 on it and
       correct it to F/N.

   25. Did you move out of your head earlier in auditing?		_______
       Do Ext RD. (Ref. HCO B 16 Dec 71, C/S Series 35R.)

   26. Was your Exteriorization Rundown messed up?			_______
       Check folder on each flow and on the 2wc next day to be sure

				      246


       each flow was run to erasure and the 2wc to F/N.
       Remember that an auditor report can be a false report,
       and if you can't find the error in the folder, then do 1
       to 24 on each flow. DO NOT AUDIT A PC FURTHER UNTIL THE
       EXT RD IS TOTALLY CORRECTED. IF YOU DO THE TA WILL RISE,
       WON'T COME DOWN AND PC WILL BE UPSET OR ILL.

     IN CHOOSING WHICH OF THESE READING ITEMS TO HANDLE, ALWAYS HANDLE EXT RD
ITEMS FIRST. THEN HANDLE THE REST.

     DO NOT CONTINUE AUDITING A PC WHOSE EXT RD WAS MESSED UP AND NOT CORRECTED.

     ANY ERROR REMAINING ON AN EXT RD IS DEADLY.

   27.	Were you being asked things you couldn't answer?		_______

   28.	Did the auditor refuse to accept what you were saying?		_______
	Get this and earlier similar instances until you get an F/N VGIs.

     FROM HERE ON ASSESS FURTHER ONLY IF PC TA OR UPSET REMAIN UNHANDLED.

     IF ANY OF THE FOLLOWING READ, INDICATE IT, GET AN F/N OR GET AN EARLIER
SIMILAR UNTIL IT F/Ns.

   29.	Has an item read under protest? 				_______

   30.	Was there no interest in running item?				_______

   31.	Was there no charge on item in the first place? 		_______

   32.	Has an item been misworded?					_______

   33.	Were you more interested in running another item?		_______

   34.	Was the item suppressed?					_______

   35.	Was the item invalidated?					_______

   36.	Was more than you could see demanded?				_______

   37.	Were 2 or more engrams found on the same date?			_______

   38.	Did you skid into another incident?				_______

   39.	Did you move to another chain?					_______

   40.	Did you change the item while running it?			_______

   41.	Were you running an item different from that assessed?		_______

   42.	Was an Implant restimulated?					_______

   43.	Were earlier errors on engrams restimulated?			_______

   44.	Was important data by-passed?					_______

   45.	Was an incident skipped?					_______

   46.	Did 2 or more incidents get confused?				_______

   47.	Has a withhold been missed?					_______

   48.	Has an incident been left too heavily charged?			_______

   49.	Has a chain been abandoned?					_______

   50.	Has an incident been abandoned? 				_______

   51.	Were you prevented from running an incident?			_______

   52.	Were processes changed on you?					_______

   53.	Has basic on a chain been by-passed?				_______

   54.	Has an erasure been denied you? 				_______

				      247


   55.	After it was erased did you have to put it back to erase it?	_______

   56.	Were you running copies of the original after it had gone?	_______

   57.	Have you gone past erasure into another chain?			_______

   58.	Have several different chains been pulled in?			_______

   59.	Has a cognition been chopped?					_______

   60.	Has an F/N been indicated too soon?				_______

   61.	Has the somatic gone but picture still there?			_______

   62.	Should a basic be run through one more time?			_______

   63.	Have you been held up by the auditor?				_______

   64.	Were you distracted in session? 				_______

   +65. Did you go exterior in an incident?				_______

   66.	Was an incident overrun?					_______

   +67. Did you go exterior in session? 				_______

   *68. Have you not wanted to go earlier than this life?		_______

   69.	Has it been all black?						_______

   70.	Was it all invisible?						_______

   71.	Was the incident really a false or implanted occurrence?	_______

   *72. Have you had constantly changing pictures?			_______

   73.	Have you never had any pictures?				_______

   74.	Are you having to put it there to run it?			_______
	Get Earlier Similar times to F/N VGIs.

   75.	Are incidents being overrun?					_______

   76.	Has some major auditing action been done twice? 		_______

   77.	Has there been an unnecessary action?				_______

   78.	Was there nothing wrong in the first place?			_______

   79.	Was the real reason missed?					_______

   80.	Was something else wrong?					_______
	(Do a Green Form.)

    NOTE:

    + If questions 65 or 67 read and the pc has not had Interiorization
Rundown and the associated 2-way comm, the auditor ends off and sends folder
to C/S so it can be C/Sed for Ext RD.

    * If questions 68 or 72 read, after indicating BPC, the auditor would end
off and return folder to C/S.

    WARNING:

    Do not use any Prepcheck-type buttons during engram running or add overts
to this list as they will "mush" engrams.

						      L. RON HUBBARD
						      Founder
LRH:ams.rd
Copyright $c 1971, 1974
by L. Ron Hubbard
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
				      248




L. RON HUBBARD
Founder


Type = 11
iDate=23/1/74
Volnum=0
Issue=0
Rev=1
rDate=10/2/74
Addition=0
aDate=0/0/0
aRev=0
arDate=0/0/0

THE TECHNICAL BREAKTHROUGH OF 1973!
THE INTROSPECTION RD


Remimeo
Ex Dn
Spclsts
M7/4 *rate
Clay Demo

			 HUBBARD COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
		    Saint Hill Manor, East Grinstead, Sussex

			HCO BULLETIN OF 23 JANUARY 1974R
	     (REVISED -- see HCO B 23 Jan 74RA Volume VIII -- 348)

Remimeo 		    REVISED 10 FEBRUARY 1974
Ex Dn
Spclsts
M7/4 *rate
Clay Demo
		      THE TECHNICAL BREAKTHROUGH OF 1973!

			      THE INTROSPECTION RD

			  (Changes HCO B 23 Jan 1974,
			    "The Introspection RD".)

     I have made a technical breakthrough which possibly ranks with the major
discoveries of the Twentieth Century. It is certainly the greatest advancement
of 1973 and is now being released after a final wrap-up of research. It is
called the Introspection Rundown.

     The purpose of the Introspection RD is to locate and correct those things
which cause a person to fixate his attention inwardly, on himself or his bank.
This RD extroverts the person so that he can see his environment and therefore
handle and control it.

				    RESEARCH

     In 1970 the actual cause of PSYCHOSIS was isolated (as given in HCO B C/S
Series 22, "Psychosis", 28 November 1970). In the ensuing years this has been
proven beyond doubt to be totally correct.

     But what is a psychotic break?

     Man has never been able to solve the psychotic break. In fact, human
beings are actually afraid of a person in a psychotic break and in desperation
turn to psychiatry to handle.

     Psychiatry, desperate in its turn, without effective tech, resorts to
barbarities such as heavy drugs, ice picks, electric and insulin shock which
half kill the person and only suppress him. The fact remains there has never
been a cure for the psychotic break until now.

     The key is WHAT CAUSED THE PERSON TO INTROSPECT BEFORE THE PSYCHOTIC
BREAK.

     The breakthrough was made on a person who, after a series of wrong
indications, went into a full-blown psychotic break -- violence, destruction
and all.

     The psychiatrist at this point would have sharpened up his ice pick,
filled his syringes with the most powerful (and deadly) drugs he could find
and turned up the volts. His "handling" would have been a final destruction of
the individual.

     What was done was an auditor went into the room, sat the person down and
corrected the last severe point of wrong indication. Subsequent times of wrong
indication in his life were cleared up, the person came out of the psychotic
break and into p.t.

     THIS MEANS THE LAST REASON TO HAVE PSYCHIATRY AROUND IS GONE.

     The psychotic break, the last of the "unsolvable" conditions that can
trap a person, has been solved.

     And it's quite simple, really.

				      249


				     THEORY

     Def. INTROSPECTION: "(L. from introspicere, to look within) a looking into
one's own mind, feelings, reactions, etc.; observation and analysis of
oneself." Webster's New World Dictionary.

     Def. INTROVERSION: "(from intro- + L. vertere, to turn) 2.... a tendency
to direct one's interest upon oneself rather than upon external objects or
events." Webster's New World Dictionary.

     The essence of the Introspection RD is looking for and correcting all
those things which CAUSED the person to look inward worriedly and wrestle with
the mystery of some incorrectly designated error. The result is continual
inward looking or self-auditing without relief or end.

     In a normal person this becomes a diminished activity, unhappiness or
illness. In an R/Ser this becomes insanity and a psychotic break occurs at the
last severe point of wrong indication.

     The pc who originates to the Examiner about his case or writes notes to
the C/S or auditor is introverted and should have this RD.

				AUDITOR TRAINING

     Auditors selected to do this RD must have recently done a HARD TRs Course
and the Anti-Q&A materials.

     They must be able to recognize a ROCK SLAM, which is a particular E-Meter
phenomenon. They must be Class IV Expanded Dianetics auditors of proven skill
on routine cases. They must not themselves be R/Sers. (The last requisite is
waived in a self-salvage co-audit group where all R/S.)

     They need flawless TRs, no Q&A. This Rundown is very simple but cannot be
flubbed, as that will compound the errors and cause further introspection in
the pc. It is better not to deliver this RD than to flub any part of it. C/Ses
take note. It is an Ethics Offense to attempt this Rundown without the auditor
having done the prerequisite training and a further offense for an auditor to
flub on it.

				STEPS OF THE RD

			(Steps 0 and 00 are for a person
			  in a psychotic break, not a
				normal person.)

     Put this checklist on inside front cover of folder as a pgm.

0.    On a person in a psychotic break isolate the person wholly with
      all attendants completely muzzled (no speech).			_______

00.   Give Vitamins (B Complex, including niacinamide) and minerals
      (calcium and magnesium) to build the person up.			_______

				      ***

1.    Locate by study or research of the person's case or via
      associates or 2 way comm the last severe point of introversion just
      prior to the current psychotic break or illness. There may be
      several severe points of introversion, prior or subsequent to the
      one that triggered the break or illness. These points are
      identified by their upsetting or worrisome effect on the pc.
      Each is noted down for handling.					_______

2.    On each point, indicate the substance of it as a point of
      introversion to release the By-Passed Charge. Each should BD
      and F/N. First point indicated to F/N.				_______

2B.   Second point indicated to F/N.					_______

				      250


2C.   Third point indicated to F/N.					_______

      In the case of an out-list, the fact of a wrong item would be
      indicated and the list corrected by the Laws of L&N.

3.    Get the wording of each point stated by the pc as an item (i.e.
      "What would you call such an incident?") and its read and
      handle by 2wc each flow E/Sim to F/N. First point 2wc'd
      F-1230 to F/N.							_______

3A.   Second point 2wc'd F-1230 to F/N. 				_______

3B.   Third point 2wc'd F-1230 to F/N.					_______

4.    Verify/Correct all L&N lists.					_______

5.    Verify/Correct all Why "lists", PTS Interviews, 3 May PLs per
      C/S Series 78.							_______

6.    R3R Quad item found in No. 3.
      ("Locate an incident where _______.")				_______

6A.   L&N for the Intention behind the subject in No. 3. Verify Q for
      read before listing.						_______

6B.   R3R Quad the Intention.						_______

6C.   R3R Quad, L&N Intention & R3R Quad any other items found
      (No. 3A, 3B, etc).						_______

7.    Clear the words "Introversion", "Introspection", "Extroversion".	_______

8.    ARC BREAKS HANDLING.						_______

8A.   2wc Has another ARC Broken you?
      ARCU CDEINR E/S to F/N.						_______

8B.   2wc Have you ARC Broken another?
      ARCU CDEINR E/S to F/N.						_______

8C.   2wc Have others ARC Broken anyone else?
      ARCU CDEINR E/S to F/N.						_______

8D.   2wc Have you ARC Broken yourself?
      ARCU CDEINR E/S to F/N.						_______

8E.   2wc Has anyone ever made you feel you had an ARC Break
      when you didn't? E/S to F/N.					_______

8F.   2wc Have you ever made anyone else feel he had an ARC Break
      when he didn't? E/S to F/N.					_______

8G.   2wc Have others ever made anyone else feel he had an ARC
      Break when he didn't? E/S to F/N. 				_______

8H.   2wc Have you ever made yourself feel you had an ARC Break
      when you didn't? E/S to F/N.					_______

8I.   R3R Quad the item.						_______

8J.   L&N for the Intention behind "the forcing of upsets on people
      who don't have them."						_______

8K.   R3R Quad the Intention, in No. 8J.				_______

9.    WITHHOLDS HANDLING.						_______

				      251


9A.   2wc Are you withholding something from anyone? E/Sim to F/N.	_______

9B.   2wc is anyone else withholding something from you? E/Sim to F/N.	_______

9C.   2wc Are others withholding something from anyone else?
      E/Sim to F/N.							_______

9D.   2wc Are you withholding something from yourself? E/Sim to
      F/N.								_______

9E.   2wc Has anyone demanded W/Hs you didn't have? E/Sim to F/N.	_______

9F.   2wc Have you demanded withholds of anyone else they didn't
      have? E/Sim to F/N.						_______

9G.   2wc Have others demanded withholds of anyone else they
      didn't have? E/Sim to F/N.					_______

9H.   2wc Have you demanded W/Hs from yourself that you didn't
      have? E/Sim to F/N.						_______

9I.   R3R Quad "demanded non-existent W/Hs from _______."		_______

9J.   L&N, Clear Q thoroughly and verify for read first, what purpose
      would be behind "the demanding of non-existent W/Hs from
      others"?								_______

9K.   R3R Quad the item in No. 9J.					_______

10.   PROBLEMS HANDLING.						_______

10A.  2wc Has another given you a problem? E/Sim to F/N.		_______

10B.  2wc Have you given another a problem? E/Sim to F/N.		_______

10C.  2wc Have others given a problem to anyone else? E/Sim to F/N.	_______

10D.  2wc Have you given yourself a problem? E/Sim to F/N.		_______

10E.  2wc Has anyone ever made you feel you had a problem when
      you didn't? E/Sim to F/N. 					_______

10F.  2wc Have you ever made anyone else feel he had a problem
      when he didn't? E/Sim to F/N.					_______

10G.  2wc Have others ever made anyone else feel he had a problem
      when he didn't? E/Sim to F/N.					_______

10H.  2wc Have you ever made yourself feel you had a problem when
      you didn't? E/Sim to F/N. 					_______

10I.  R3R Quad the item.						_______

10J.  L&N for the Intention behind "the giving of problems to people
      that don't belong to them."					_______

10K.  R3R Quad the Intention, in No. 10J.				_______

11.   OVERTS HANDLING.							_______

11A.  2wc Has anyone else committed overts on you? E/Sim to F/N.	_______

11B.  2wc Have you committed overts on anyone else? Get what,
      E/Sim to F/N.							_______

				      252


11C.  2wc Have others committed overts on anyone else? E/Sim to F/N.	_______

11D.  2wc Have you committed any overts on yourself? E/Sim to F/N.	_______

11E.  2wc Has anyone ever accused you of something you didn't do?
      E/Sim to F/N.							_______

11F.  2wc Have you ever accused anyone else of something he didn't
      do? E/Sim to F/N. 						_______

11G.  2wc Have others ever accused anyone else of something he
      didn't do? E/Sim to F/N.						_______

11H.  2wc Have you ever accused yourself of something you didn't
      do? E/Sim to F/N. 						_______

11I.  R3R Quad the item.						_______

11J.  L&N for the Intention behind "the accusing of someone of
      non-existent overts."						_______

11K.  R3R Quad the Intention, in No. 11J.				_______

12.   NOT SAYING.							_______

12A.  2wc Are you not saying something about someone else or
      something? Get what, E/Sim to F/N.				_______

12B.  2wc Is anyone not saying something about you? E/Sim to F/N.	_______

12C.  2wc Are others not saying something about anyone else? E/Sim
      to F/N.								_______

12D.  2wc Are you not saying something about yourself? E/Sim to F/N.	_______

12E.  2wc Has anyone not accepted your W/Hs? E/Sim to F/N.		_______

12F.  2wc Have you not accepted someone else's W/Hs? E/Sim to F/N.	_______

12G.  2wc Have others not accepted anyone else's W/Hs? E/Sim to F/N.	_______

12H.  2wc Have you not accepted your own W/Hs? E/Sim to F/N.		_______

12I.  R3R Quad "W/Hs weren't accepted." 				_______

12J.  L&N Intention behind "the rejecting of others' W/Hs."		_______

12K.  R3R Quad the Intention, in No. 12J.				_______

13.   FALSE INCIDENTS HANDLING. 					_______

13A.  2wc Has anyone ever asked you for things that didn't exist? E/S
      to F/N.								_______

13B.  2wc Have you ever asked anyone else for things that didn't
      exist? E/S to F/N.						_______

13C.  2wc Have others ever asked anyone else for things that didn't
      exist? E/S to F/N.						_______

13D.  2wc Have you ever asked yourself for things that didn't exist?
      E/S to F/N.							_______

				      253


13E.  R3R Quad the item.						_______

13F.  L&N for the Intention behind "the demanding of false incidents
      from others."							_______

13G.  R3R Quad the Intention, in No. 13F.				_______

14.   PTS HANDLING.							_______

14A.  2wc Has anyone given you a false assignment that you were
      being done in? E/S to F/N.					_______

14B.  2wc Have you given anyone a false assignment that he was being
      done in? E/S to F/N.						_______

14C.  2wc Have others given anyone else a false assignment that they
      were being done in? E/Sim to F/N. 				_______

14D.  2wc Have you given yourself a false assignment that you were
      being done in? E/S to F/N.					_______

14E.  R3R Quad the item.						_______

14F.  L&N for the Intention behind "giving others a false assignment
      that they were being done in."					_______

14G.  R3R Quad the Intention, in No. 14F.				_______

14H.  2wc Has anyone been doing you in? E/S to F/N.			_______

14I.  2wc Have you been doing anyone else in? E/S to F/N.		_______

14J.  2wc Have others been doing anyone else in? E/S to F/N.		_______

14K.  2wc Have you been doing yourself in? E/S to F/N.			_______

15.   FALSE INTERROGATION HANDLING.					_______

15A.  2wc Has anyone ever interrogated you for no reason? E/S to F/N.	_______

15B.  2wc Have you ever interrogated anyone else for no reason? E/S
      to F/N.								_______

15C.  2wc Have others ever interrogated anyone else for no reason?
      E/S to F/N.							_______

15D.  2wc Have you ever had yourself interrogated for no reason? E/S
      to F/N.								_______

15E.  R3R Quad the item.						_______

15F.  L&N for the Intention behind "the false interrogating of
      others."								_______

15G.  R3R Quad the Intention, in No. 15F.				_______

16.   FALSE INVALIDATION HANDLING.					_______

16A.  2wc Has anyone ever heavily invalidated you unjustly? E/S to F/N. _______

16B.  2wc Have you ever heavily invalidated anyone else unjustly?
      E/S to F/N.							_______

16C.  2wc Have others ever heavily invalidated anyone else unjustly?
      E/S to F/N.							_______

				      254


16D.  2wc Have you ever heavily invalidated yourself unjustly?
      E/S to F/N.							_______

16E.  R3R Quad the item.						_______

16F.  L&N for the Intention behind "the unjust invalidating of others." _______

16G.  R3R Quad the Intention, in No. 16F.				_______

17.   FALSE VALIDATION HANDLING.					_______

17A.  2wc Has another ever validated you for something he knew was
      wrong? E/S to F/N.						_______

17B.  2wc Have you ever validated anyone else for something you
      knew was wrong? E/S to F/N.					_______

17C.  2wc Have others ever validated anyone else for something they
      knew was wrong? E/S to F/N.					_______

17D.  2wc Have you ever validated yourself for something you knew
      was wrong? E/S to F/N.						_______

17E.  R3R Quad the item.						_______

17F.  L&N for the Intention behind "the false validating of others."	_______

17G.  R3R Quad the Intention, in No. 17F.				_______

18.   "HIT" FOR NO REASON.						_______

18A.  2wc Has anyone "hit" you too hard for no reason? E/S to F/N.	_______

18B.  2wc Have you "hit" anyone else too hard for no reason?
      E/S to F/N.							_______

18C.  2wc Have others "hit" anyone else too hard for no reason? E/S
      to F/N.								_______

18D.  2wc Have you gotten yourself "hit" too hard for no reason?
      E/S to F/N.							_______

18E.  R3R Quad the item.						_______

18F.  L&N for the Intention behind "the 'hitting' of others unfairly."	_______

18G.  R3R Quad the Intention, in No. 18F.				_______

19.   INVALIDATED BEINGNESS HANDLING.					_______

19A.  2wc Has anyone ever challenged or questioned who you were?
      E/S to F/N.							_______

19B.  2wc Have you ever challenged or questioned anyone else's
      identity? E/S to F/N.						_______

19C.  2wc Have others ever challenged or questioned anyone else's
      identity? E/S to F/N.						_______

19D.  2wc Have you ever challenged or questioned your identity? E/S
      to F/N.								_______

19E.  R3R Quad the item.						_______

19F.  L&N for the Intention behind "the invalidating of others'
      identity."							_______

19G.  R3R Quad the Intention, in No. 19F.				_______

20.   INVALIDATED INTENTIONS HANDLING.					_______

				      255


20A.  2wc Has anyone ever challenged or questioned your intentions?
      E/S to F/N.							_______

20B.  2wc Have you ever challenged or questioned anyone else's
      intentions? E/S to F/N.						_______

20C.  2wc Have others ever challenged or questioned anyone else's
      intentions? E/S to F/N.						_______

20D.  2wc Have you ever challenged or questioned your own
      intentions? E/S to F/N.						_______

20E.  R3R Quad "misinterpreted intentions.				_______

20F.  L&N for the Intention behind "the invalidating of the
      intentions of others."						_______

20G.  R3R Quad the Intention, in No. 20F.				_______

21.   OBJECTIVE HAVINGNESS.						_______

     An HC List could be added here if the pc's "think" is still weird.

     NOTE: ITEMS THAT DON'T READ WON'T RUN. DON'T RUN OR
     LIST Q's THAT DON'T READ OR YOU'LL REINTROVERT THE PC.

     Frequent D of P Interview is vital whenever the case looks like it is not
rapidly progressing. Also a quick assessment may be needed as a separate
action to isolate possible charged areas of introspection.

     At any time after Step 2, Objective Havingness should be done at session
end. If one of the items in Steps 3-20 turns out to be false the pc will
introvert further. In such a case indicate the fact of it having been
unnecessary and get an F/N. Then run Objective Havingness. If the TA goes high
(or low) and won't come into range, assess a C/S 53RF and handle.

     In the case of a pc in a psychotic break, the C/S would have to locate
the last severe wrong indication, indicate the fact to the pc and get it
corrected (as with a wrong item) as the first action.

				  EXTROVERSION

     Def.  EXTROVERSION: "... Means nothing more than being able to look
outward...." "An extroverted personality is one who is capable of looking
around the environment...." "A person who is capable of looking at the world
around him and seeing it quite real and quite bright is of course in a state
of extroversion." (Problems Of Work.)

     The end phenomena of the Introspection RD is the person extroverted, no
longer looking inward worriedly in a continuous self-audit without end.

     The EP on a person in a psychotic break is the end of the psychotic break.

     The RD is very simple and its results are magical in effectiveness. Flubs
can wreck it so don't permit them.

     You have in your hands the tool to take over mental therapy in full. You
need not fear the insane or the psychotic break any longer.

     Here also is the cure for the continual self-auditing pc who is dug into
his bank. It works on all pcs in fact with rave results.

     Do it flawlessly and we all win.

     THIS PLANET IS OURS.

LRH:ams.jh					     L. RON HUBBARD
Copyright $c 1974				     Founder
by L. Ron Hubbard
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

[Added to by HCO Bs 20 Feb 74, 6 Mar 74 and 20 Apr 74.]



L. RON HUBBARD
Founder

