Section Three
15/2/68



ADDITIONAL TECH DATA


There are no Body ns who cannot be audited and exteriorized.
1) There are Suppressive Body ns who require Power Processes.
2) There are difficult Body ns who require 0 to VI processes before they can run engrams (Inc 1 & Inc 2).
3) There are PreOTs who are insufficiently trained and who cannot audit and who ARC break or overrun Body ns or who cannot do Academy Level 0-IV auditing, much less Level VI auditing.
4) There are clusters of Body ns who think they are one Body n and so can’t run Inc 1 or Inc 2 as a group as they have differences.

1. SP Body Thetans

An SP by definition is one who is out of valence in R6. Some are just plain psychotic and SP as well. Pr Pr 6 handles any SP, pc or body n.
This can best be done, by actual test, by the OT being an SH or AO Class VII. It can possibly be done (no test ever made) by having a Class VII audit the OT who relays the commands to and answers of the body n to the auditor, the OT being on a meter; the meter will respond to the body n if the OT is putting attention on the body n. This HAS been done with ordinary body ns. It simply handles the body n on a via.
When Pr Pr 6 has been run on the body n to its end phenomena, the body n can then be handled as an ordinary pc body n as in 2. below.

2. Difficult Body Thetans

Some body ns are difficult cases. They are psychotic, or they have fixed ideas or service facs.
To handle, one really should be a Class VII. However, an OT on Sect. III can be used as a relay to and from the body n and audited by a Class VII. There is no substitute for being an SHSBC graduate + a Class VII Interne.
Only standard Scn Tech is used, no tricks needed. The auditing is fast. The needle seldom floats on the body n and the TA tends to start high and come down.
When the body n has been pushed up to IV (Grade Four) he can usually run engrams and can be run on Incidents 1 and 2 and will blow.
The trouble with a difficult body n is that he (or she) usually has some fixed idea which inhibits his recovery. This responds to ordinary tech, taking him up through the grades.

3. Insufficiently Trained OTs

Some students try to run engrams like Clearing Course materials or make other errors because they are just not well trained.
Such should knock off III and do a Dianetic Course at least or even the SHSBC. IF they still have trouble they should interne as Class VIIs.
THE MAIN SOURCE OF FAILURE IN SECTION THREE IS NOT STRANGE THETANS OR HIDDEN SPs BUT STUDENTS WHO CAN’T AUDIT.
It is easy to blame the „difficult body n“ when the truth is that one should be a better auditor.
Sect. III can be left incomplete while the student is trained better – providing he does not fool about with his own case while being trained but, now trained, recommences Section III.
One has to be able to do S & Ds on body ns, has to find ARC breaks, etc, the lot, where one has trouble with Sect. III.
The number of body ns a case has varies widely.
The answer with consistent trouble with III is not unusual solutions for body ns but just a better trained student. Body ns are just thetans.

4. Clusters of Body Thetans

THE ONLY KNOWN DIFFERENCE between auditing body ns and auditing PCs (and it is not a real difference as some pcs are a total cluster) is that body ns can come in clusters.
Then Inc 1 won’t run on the cluster as each individual n in the cluster has a different viewpoint and received Inc 1 as an individual, not as a cluster.
A CLUSTER HAS A MORE RECENT MUTUAL EXPERIENCE WHICH HAPPENED TO THE WHOLE CLUSTER.
The error they make is the basic error of ns. They think we are all ONE, whereas we are individuals.
To detect a cluster: (a) There is a force or pressure or heavy somatic in an area (b) or there is „a n“ who can’t erase Inc 1 or 2. This means there are several ns who think they are one n.
To remedy this situation
1) 	Date a mutual incident for the cluster to find the point they „became one“. Usually one gets this easily.
2) 	Locate where it occurred in terms of planet and star (or even planet, star, town and place in the town).
3) 	List for type of incident and find what it was (lightning, psychiatric shock etc.)
4) 	Run the incident as a single engram.
