INSTRUCTIONS
(Revised 12 Aug 1969)


Locate by meter read or an area of pressure, a body thetan or group (Cluster).
Run Incident 2.
If the BT does not blow off or the group break up and blow, then run Incident 1 on individual BTs. Each will blow off with an F/N.
When you can find no more on which to run Inc 1s, once more locate a pressure area or by meter read on looking over body, run ANOTHER Inc 2. Then Inc 1s on any.
Inc 2 made clusters of BTs. Severe impacts AND EXPERIENCE also make Clusters. (See the data called „Milazzo“ in this Pack.) Those who do not leave on running the impact or its chain will leave when Inc 1 is run on them.
Inc 2 sometimes forms gigantic clusters. In such there is a Leader, an Alternate Leader and several (8 to 18) more. These were all implanted in different volcanic areas with fractions of the main 36 day implant and then „packaged“ in Las Palmas or Hawaii. Thus if you run Inc 2 as far as „The Pilot“ it blows up or loosens up and those who don’t go away can be run on Inc 1’s.
Do not speak your commands. Just „intend“ them. BT controls easily.
BTs can be ARC broken by rough or careless auditing. You can also run an Inc 2 on a BT and he doesn’t blow but you accidentally run an Inc 1 on another one and leave the first still there. The remedy is to run Inc 1s on anything you find.
A very SP BT can be run on Grades and Power and should then respond to Inc 2 and Inc 1.
After a BT leaves some other BT may copy him or the incident just run.
If you have found a cluster (pressure area) that does not respond or disintegrate to Inc 2 running, get Dianetic Auditing, Listing „What impact or incident would make a cluster?“ and R3R on the items found. Then do more Inc 1s to clean up strays with Solo. This is a refined „Milazzo“. There are hundreds of BTs you will find.
If you find none, get audited on Dianetics in general and as above (Impact List) and if you still find none, get a Review GF # 40 and handle all items, then go back to solo.
If you find only one or two, get the Dianetic Impact List done.
All „none on OT III“ cases were later found loaded.
Do Inc 2 and Inc 1s on what you can find to begin with. You will do fine. Good Hunting.

	Ron
